The Sixth World Health Assembly ADOPTS the following revised Rules of Procedure : Rule 51 The reports of all committees established to consider items of the agenda shall, before being submitted toa plenary meeting for final disposition, be referred to the General Committee, or toa drafting committee appointed by it, for co-ordinating and editing. Such reports, including draft resolutions, shall, after being examined by the General Committee, be circulated, insofar as practicable, at least twenty-four hours in advance of the plenary meetings at which they are tobe considered, unless the General Committee decides to refer the report or the draft for re-examination to the competent committee. Where such reports have been so circulated twenty-four hours in advance, they shall not normally be read aloud in the plenary meeting, unless the President decides otherwise. Rule 60 If two or more proposals are moved, the Health Assembly shall first vote on the proposal deemed by the President tobe furthest removed in substance from the original proposal and then on the proposal next removed therefrom, and so on, until all the proposals have been put to the vote, unless the result of a vote ona proposal makes unnecessary any other voting on the proposal or proposals still outstanding. Rule 79 Verbatim records of all plenary meetings shall be kept by the Secretariat. The verbatim records of public meetings shall be available to the public. The verbatim records of private meetings shall be available to delegations and representatives of Associate Members only, unless the Health Assembly expressly decides otherwise. Rule 81 As soon as possible after the close of each session, copies of all verbatim and summary records, resolutions, recommendations, and other formal decisions adopted by the Health Assembly shall be transmitted by the Director-General to Members and Associate Members and, subject to the provisions of Rule 79, to the United Nations, and to all specialized agencies with which the Organization has entered into a formal agreement. Rule 82 The verbatim records of all public plenary meetings, summary records required underRule 80, and the reports of all committees setup under Rules 32 and 39, shall be published in the Official Records of the Organization. Rule 106 The approval by the World Health Assembly of any request made by a Member or other authority having responsibility for the international relations of a territory or group of territories on behalf of such territory or group of territories shall be communicated immediately to the Government of the Member or other authority which has submitted the request. Such Government or other authority shall give notice to the Director-General of acceptance on behalf of the Associate Member of associate membership. The territory or group of territories shall become an Associate Member from the date of the receipt of such n0tlCe' (Fourth report of the Committee on Administration, Finance and Legal Matters, adopted at the tenth plenary meeting, 22 May 1953)