The Second World Health Assembly RESOLVES 1. that Mr. Uno Brunskog be appointed as External Auditor of the accounts of WHO for the financial period ending 31 December 1950. Should the necessity arise, Mr. Brunskog may designate a representative to actin his absence ; 2. that in the year of the last financial period tobe audited by the Auditor appointed under 1 above, the Health Assembly shall appoint an Auditor of the accounts of WHO ; 3. that the Auditor shall adopt his own rules of procedure ; 4. that the Auditor, subject to budgetary provision made by the Health Assembly for the cost of the audit, and after consultation with the appropriate committee of the Executive Board relative to the scope of the audit, may conduct the audit under the provisions of this resolution in such manner as he thinks fit and may engage commercial public auditors of international repute ; 5. that the Auditor shall submit his report, together with the certified accounts and such other statement as he thinks necessary, to the Health Assembly, tobe available to the Executive Board not later than 1 May following the end of the financial year to which the accounts relate ; 6. that the audit should be carried outby the Auditor inaccordance with the principles to govern audit procedure recommended by the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination of the Economic and Social Council and that in particular the Auditor shall have full regard to the following : 6.1 The Auditor should satisfy himself 6.1.1 that the accounts, including the balance sheet, represent a correct record of duly authorized financial transactions of the financial year ; 6.1.2 that money has not been expended or obligated for other than the purpose or purposes for which the appropriations voted by the Assembly were intended to provide, except insofar as the Director-General has authorized transfers within the budget acting upon his authority contained in the Appropriation Resolution and that expenditures conform to the authority which governs them ; 6.1.3 that transfers from the working capital or other funds have received the necessary authority. 6.2 The Auditor, after satisfying himself that the vouchers have been examined and certified as correct by the accounting organization, may, in his discretion and having regard to the character of the examination within the department, in any particular case admit the sums so certified without further examination, provided, however, that if the Health Assembly or the appropriate committee of the Executive Board on behalf of the Health Assembly requests that any accounts be examined in greater detail, the Auditor shall do so. 6.3 The Auditor shall examine at least once a year such stock or store accounts as are maintained by the Organization. 6.4 The Auditor shall have free access at all convenient times to the books of account and all information relevant to the accounts of the Organization. Requests for official files which may deal with matters of policy should be made only through the official designated for that purpose by the Director-General. 6.5 The Auditor should not criticize purely administrative matters, but it is within his discretion to comment upon the financial consequences of administrative action. 6.6 Objections which may arise during audit to any items should be communicated immediately to the administration. As a general rule, criticism will not be made in the Auditor's report without first affording the administration an opportunity of explanation. 6.7 Documentary or other information obtained from a department should not be published by the Auditor without reference to the duly authorized official of the Organization. 6.8 The Auditor certifying the accounts should prepare a report of each account certified, in which he should mention : 6.8.1 the extent and character of his examination or any important changes therein ; 6.8.2 matters affecting the completeness or accuracy of the accounts, such as : (1) information necessary to the correct interpretation of the accounts. (2) any amounts which ought to have been received but which have not been brought to account ; (3) expenditures not properly vouched ; 6.8.3 other matters which should be brought to the notice of the Health Assembly, such as : (1) cases of fraud or presumptive fraud ; (2) wasteful or improper expenditure of the Organization's money or stores (notwithstanding that the accounting for the transactions maybe correct) ; (3) expenditure likely to commit the Organization to further outlay ona large scale ; (4) any defect in the general system or detailed regulation governing the control of receipts and expenditure, or of stores ; (5) expenditure not inaccordance with the intention of the Health Assembly, after making allowance for duly authorized transfers within the budget ; (6) expenditure in excess of appropriations, as amended by duly authorized transfers within the budget ; (7) expenditure not inconformity with the authority which governs it ; 6.8.4 the accuracy or otherwise of the stores records as determined by stocktaking and examination of the records. In addition, the reports may contain reference to : 6.8.5 transactions accounted for in a previous year concerning which further information has been obtained, or transactions in a later year concerning which it seems desirable that the Health Assembly should have early knowledge. 6.9 The Auditor, or such of his officers as he may delegate, should certify each account in the following terms : " The above accounts have been examined inaccordance with my directions. I have obtained all the information and explanations that I have required, and I certify, as the result of the audit, that, in my opinion, the above account is correct "adding, should it be necessary, "subject to the observations in my report." 6.10 The Auditor shall ha.ve no power to disallow items in the accounts, but shall recommend to the Director-General for appropriate action such disallowances as he is prepared to recommend to the Health Assembly based on his audit of the accounts and records. The Auditor shall bring to the attention of the Health Assembly any cases where his recommendations for disallowances have not been acted upon by the Director-General. 6.11 The Auditor should attend the Assembly when his report is being discussed and make any necessary explanation or answer any question related thereto. (Second report of Committee on Administration and Finance, adopted at ninth plenary meeting)