WHA26.56 Health  assistance  to refugees  and displaced  persons  in the Middle  East 
The Twenty-sixth  World  Health  Assembly, 
A 
Mindful  of the principle  that  the  health  of all peoples  is fundamental  to the attainment  of peace  and 
security  ； 
Considering  that  the  non-return  of the  Palestinian  refugees  and  displaced  persons  to their  homes  is 
gravely  affecting  their  physical  and  mental  health; 
Having  considered  document  A26/WP/5， 
1. REAFFIRMS  that  the protection  of the life and physical  and  mental  health  of the refugees  and  displaced 
persons  necessitates  that  they  immediately  be afforded  their  right  to return  to their  homes,  in accordance 
with  the relevant  resolutions  of the United  Nations  ； 
2. CALLS  UPON  Israel  to refrain  from  such  practices  as the destruction  of the refugee  shelters  and  the dispersal  of the refugees  ； and 
3. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to intensify  and  expand  to the largest  extent  possible  the Organization's 
programme  of health  assistance  to the refugees  and displaced  persons  in the Middle  East; 
В 
Conscious  of its responsibilities  to ensure  adequate  health  conditions  for all peoples,  particularly  those 
who suffer  from  exceptional  circumstances  such  as military  occupation  ； 
Having  examined  document  A26/21  ； 
Considering  that  the need  for gathering  and  verifying  facts  on health  conditions  of the inhabitants  of 
the occupied  territories  requires  a comprehensive  field  investigation  and  contact  with  all parties  directly 
concerned  ； 
Bearing  in mind  the principles  enshrined  in the Constitution  of the World  Health  Organization, 
1. DECIDES  to establish  A special  committee  of experts  appointed  by three  Member  States  chosen  by the 
fifty-second  session  of the Executive  Board  in consultation  with  the Director-General  to study  the health 
conditions  of the inhabitants  of the occupied  territories  in the Middle  East  in all its aspects,  and  to submit 
a comprehensive  report  on its findings  to the Twenty-seventh  World  Health  Assembly; 
2. REQUESTS  the special  committee  to contact  all governments  and  institutions  concerned,  and  obtain  from 
them  all necessary  and  relevant  information  on the situation; 
3. REQUESTS  the governments  concerned  to cooperate  with  the special  committee  and particularly  to facilitate 
its free  movement  in the occupied  territories  ； and 
4. REQUESTS  the  Director-General  to provide  the  special  committee  with  all facilities  necessary  for  the 
performance  of its mission. 
Handb.  Res.,  Vol.  I，8.1.5.4 Sixteenth  plenary  meeting,  23 May  1973 
(Committee  B,  fifth  report) 
