The Ninth World Health Assembly, Having studied the recommendations of the Executive Board in resolution EB17.R27 Desiring to find ways and means of enabling those Members who have not been actively participating in the work of the Organization rapidly to resume the exercise of their rights and to fulfil their obligations Considering the provisions of the Constitution governing the financial obligations of Members, together with the provisions of the Financial Regulations Having considered the principles and policies which should apply to the settlement of the arrears of contributions of those Members Considering that, during the period in which those Members were not actively participating in the work of the Organization, the Members who were actively participating carried the financial burden of the Organization, bore the cost of acquiring assets which now belong to the Organization, and of providing to Members not actively participating certain services of the Organization, 1. DECIDES that contributions must bepaid in full for the years during which the Members participated actively in the work of the Organization (including the year during which the intention of the Member concerned no longer to participate in the work of the Organization was communicated to the Organization) 2. DECIDES that, for those years during which the Members did not actively participate in the work of the Organization, a token payment of five per cent, of the amount assessed each year shall be required which shall, upon payment, be considered as discharging in full the financial obligations of those Members for the years concerned 3. DECIDES that the payments required under paragraphs 1 and 2 above must bepaid in US dollars or Swiss francs and bepaid inequal annual instalments over a period not exceeding ten years beginning with the year in which active participation is resumed if the Members concerned wish to take advantage of this provision of the resolution and that payment of those annual amounts shall be construed as preventing the application of the provisions of Article 7 of the Constitution 4. DECIDES that, inaccordance with Financial Regulation 5.6, payments made by the Members concerned shall be credited first to the Working Capital Fund and, further, 5. DECIDES that, notwithstanding the provisions of Financial Regulation 5.6, payments of contributions for the years beginning with that in which the Members return to active participation shall be credited to the year concerned 6. REQUESTS the Director-General, as the token payments established in paragraph 2 above are received, to so adjust the accounts of the Organization as is appropriate under the terms of this resolution in respect of those years 7. REQUESTS the Director-General to inform the Members concerned of these decisions 8. EXPRESSES the hope that this decision of the Health Assembly will facilitate the resumption by the Members concerned of active participation in the work of the Organization. Handb. Res., 3rd ed. 6.2.3 7.1.2 Seventh plenary meeting, 11 May 1956 (report of the Special Committee)