The Thirty-fifth World Health Assembly, Noting the report of the Director-General1 on the Expanded Programme on Immunization and the Executive Board1s discussion on the report; Noting further the five-point action programme contained in the Director-General1 s report, calling for the promotion of the Expanded Programme on Immunization within the context of primary health care, the investment of adequate human and financial resources in the Expanded Programme, the continuous evaluation and adaptation of immunization programmes, and the pursuit of appropriate research; 1. RECOGNIZES that the tion for all children of attain health for all by goal of the Expanded Programme on Immunization, to provide immunizathe world by 1990, is an essential element of WHO'S strategy to the year 2000; 2. WARNS that progress will have tobe accelerated if this goal is tobe met; *_ 3. URGES Member States to take action on the five-point programme annexed to this resolution.;^ 4. EXPRESSES warm appreciation to national agencies and individuals, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and other international organizations whose collaboration has contributed so much to the success of the programme so far; 5. URGES Member States commit long-term support complete immunization of and international organizations that are in a position to do so toto countries unable fully to underwrite the costs involved in their infant populations 6. URGES Member States developing countries, into collaborate, especially through technical all programme aspects in order to accelerate objectives of the Expanded Programme arid in the continuous evaluation programme through appropriate information support; cooperation among the achievement of the of the progress of the 7. REQUESTS the Director-General: (1) to intensify collaboration with Member States to increase the effectiveness of national immunization programmes (2) to promote dissemination of the results programme developments (3) to continue to keep the Health Assembly required. of significant research findings and informed of the progress of the programme as Fourteenth plenary meeting, 14 May 1982 A35 / vi / l4 Document A3 5 / 9. Annex. I WHA35.31 page 2 ANNEX FIVE-POINT ACTION PROGRAMME (1) Promote EPI within the context of primary health care:-develop mechanisms to enable the community to participate as an active partner in programme planning, implementation and evaluation, providing the technical and logistical resources to support these functions; and-deliver immunization services with other health services, particularly those directed towards mothers and children, so that they are mutually supportive. (2) Invest adequate human resources in EPI: Lack of these resources in general and lack of management skills in particular represent the programme's most severe constraints. Capable senior and middle-level managers must be designated and given authority and responsibility to carry out their tasks. They require training, not only tobe effective with respect to EPI, but also to contribute to the understanding and strengthening of the primary health care approach. Reasons for low motivation and performance in the areas of field supervision and management need tobe identified in order that appropriate measures can be taken to encourage managers to visit, train, motivate and monitor the performance of those for whom they are responsible. (3) Invest adequate financial resources in EPI: For the programme to expand to reach its targets, current levels of investment in EPI, estimated now at US$ 72 million per year, must be doubled by 1983 and doubled again by 1990 when a total of some US$ 300 million (at 1980 value) will be required annually. Over two-third s of these amounts must come from within the developing countries themselves, the remaining one-third from the international community. (4) Ensure that programmes are continuously evaluated and adapted so as to achieve high immunization coverage and maximum reduction in target-disease deaths and cases: Such adaptation depends on the development of adequate information and evaluation systems. By the end of 1985 at the latest, each country should be able to:-estimate reliably immunization coverage of children by the age of 12 months with vaccines included in the national programme;-obtain timely and representative reports on the incidence of EPI target diseases included within the national programme; and-obtain information on the quality of vaccine so that it is known that the vaccines employed for EPI meet WHO requirements and are potent at the time of use. In addition, countries should promote the use of periodic programme reviews by multidisciplinary teams comprised of national and outside staff to ensure that operational problems are identified arid that awide range of experience is reflected in the recommendations which are made. (5) Pursue research efforts as part of programme operations: The objectives should be to improve the effectiveness of immunization services while reducing their costs and to ensure the adequate supply and quality of vaccines. Specific concerns include the development of approaches for delivering services which engage the full support of the community, the improvement of methods and materials relating to sterilization and the cold chain, the acquisition of additional knowledge concerning the epidemiology of the target diseases, further development of appropriate management information systems, and further improvement in the production and quality control of vaccines which are safe, effective and stable.