WHA28.44  World  Population  Year  and  Conference,  1974 
The Twenty-eighth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the  report  of the Director-General  on the World  Population  Year  and  Conference, 
1974， 
1. NOTES  with  satisfaction  the  various  technical  and  scientific  contributions  made  by the Organization 
towards  the preparatory  and  supportive  activities  of the World  Population  Year  and  Conference; 
2. WELCOMES  the  emphasis  given  in the  World  Population  Plan  of Action  to the  interrelationships  of 
population  and  socioeconomic  development,  and  in turn  to the required  national  and  international  efforts 
in health  and  nutrition  for enhanced  quality  of life,  particularly  in the rural  and  the underserved  areas  ； 
3. APPRECIATES  that  such  a comprehensive  approach  to population,  health  and  development  in the context 
of national  policies  is basic  to the work  of many  of the organizations  in the United  Nations  system  ； 
4. STRESSES  the urgency  of reducing  maternal,  perinatal,  infant  and  childhood  mortality  and  morbidity 
through  the continued  development  and  improved  management  of maternal  and  child  health  services  and other 
aspects  of family  health  care  ； 
5. RECOGNIZES  the need  to improve  health  through  support  to research  on all aspects  of human  reproduction,  including  methods  of fertility  regulation  and  the  impact  of family  planning  on health  and  on 
the optimal  physical  and  psychosocial  development  of the child; 
6. URGES  Member  States  to take  the initiative  in organizing  national  follow-up  activities  in the healthrelated  aspects  recommended  in the World  Population  Plan  of Action:  and 
7. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to intensify  activities  related  to family  health  care  as part  of the strengthening  of health  services  and  to participate  fully  in the development  of activities  in the sectors  of the World 
Population  Plan  of Action  related  to health. 
Handb.  Res.,  Vol.  II, 8.1.3.2;  1.6 Twelfth  plenary  meeting,  28 May  1975 
(Committee  B, fourth  report) 
