, including in its introduction, rationale, principles, benefits of engagement, ri sks of engagement, non-State actors, types of interaction as contained in the Appendix ; 2. REQUESTS the Director General: (1) to convene as soon as possible, and no later than October 2015, an open-ended intergovernmental meeting to finalize the draft framework of engagement with non-State actors on the basis of progress made during the Sixty-eighth World Health Assembly, as reflected in the Appendix ; (2) to submit the finalized draft framework of engagement with non-State actors for adoption to the Sixty-ninth World Health Assembly, through the Executive Board at its 138th session; (3) to develop the register of non-State actors in time for the Sixty-ninth World Health Assembly, taking into account progress made on the draft framework of engagement with non State actors. 1 Documents A68 / 5, Annex and A68 / 53. WHA68.9 2 ANNEX Draft resolution [The Sixty-ninth World Health Assembly, PP1 Having considered the report on the framework of engagement with non-State actors and the revised draft framework of engagement with non-State actors, PP2 Recalling resolution WHA64.2 and decision WHA65(9) on WHO reform, and decisions WHA67(14) and EB136(3) ona framework of engagement with non-State actors, PP3 Acknowledging the importance to WHOof engagement with non-State actors that benefits from a robust management of the risks of such engagement for all three levels of the Organization, (OP1) 1. APPROVES the Framework of Engagement with non-State actors, setout in the Annex to this resolution;1 (OP2) 2. DECIDES that the Framework of Engagement with non-State actors shall replace the Principles governing relations between the World Health Organization and nongovernmental organizations2 and Guidelines on interaction with commercial enterprises to achieve health outcomes;3 (OP3) 3. REQUESTS the Director General: (1) to implement the Framework of Engagement with non-State actors; (2) to establish the register of non-State actors in time for the Sixty-ninth World Health Assembly; (3) to report on the implementation of the Framework of Engagement with non-State actors to the Executive Board at each of its January sessions under a standing agenda item, through the Programme Budget and Administration Committee; (4) to conduct in 2018 an evaluation of the implementation of the Framework of Engagement with non-State actors and its impact on the work of WHO with a view to submitting the results, together with any proposals for revisions of the Framework, to the Executive Board in January 2019, through the Programme Budget and Administration Committee.] 1 Consisting of an overarching framework and four specific policies on engagement with nongovernmental organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations and academic institutions. 2 Adopted in resolution WHA40.25 . See Basic documents, 48th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014. 3 Document EB107 / 20 , Annex. WHA68.9 3 Appendix [DRAFT] FRAMEWORK OF ENGAGEMENT WITH NON-STATE ACTORS DRAFT OVERARCHING FRAMEWORK OF ENGAGEMENT WITH NON-STATE ACTORS *DOCUMENT AS AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE SIXTY-EIGHTH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY REFLECTING THE WORK OF THE DRAFTING GROUP OF COMMITTEE A EXPLANATION OF COLOUR CODE: TEXT HIGHLIGHTED IN GREEN HAS BEEN AGREED AD REFERENDUM. TEXT HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW WAS CONSIDERED BUT NO CONSENSUS WAS REACHED. TEXT HIGHLIGHTED IN GREY IS THE CHAIRPERSONS PROPOSAL FORA COMPROMISE CONCERNING THE PRECEDING YELLOW H IGHLIGHTED PARAGRAPH. TEXT NOT HIGHLIGHTED HAS NOT BEEN CONSIDERED YET. INTRODUCTION 1. The overarching framework for engagement with non-State actors and the WHO policy and operational procedures on management of engagement with non-State actors apply to all engagements with non-State actors at all levels of the Organization whereas the four specific policies and operational procedures on engagement are limited inapplication to, respectively, nongovernmental organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations and academic institutions. ENGAGEMENT: RATIONAL E, PRINCIPLES, BENEF ITS AND RISKS Rationale 2. WHO is the directing and coordinating authority in global health in line with its constitutional mandate. The global health landscape has become more complex in many respects; among other things, there has been an increase in the number of players including non-State actors. WHO engages with non-State actors in view of their significant role in global health for the advancement and promotion of public health and to encourage non-State actors touse their own activities to protect and promote public health. 1 Headquarters, regional offices and country offices, entities established under WHO, aswell as hosted partnerships. For hosted partnerships the framework of engagement with non-State actors will apply, subject to the policy on WHOs engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements (resolution WHA63.10). Hosted, aswell as external partnerships are explained in paragraph 48. WHA68.9 4 3. The functions of WHO, setout in Article 2 of its Constitution, include: to act as the directing and coordinating authority on international health work; to establish and maintain effective collaboration with diverse organizations; and to promote cooperation among scientific and professional groups which contribute to the advancement of health. The Constitution further mandates the Health Assembly or the Executive Board, and the Director-General, to enter into specific engagements with other organizations.1 WHO shall, in relation to non-State actors, inconformity with its Constitution and resolutions and decisions of the Health Assem bly, and bearing in mind those of the United Nations General Assembly or the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, if applicable. 4. (DELETED ) 5. WHOs engagement with non-State actors supports implementation of the Organizations policies and recommendations as decided by the governing bodies, aswell as the application of WHOs technical norms and standards. Such an effective engagement with non-State actors at global, regional and country levels, [in mutual respect,] also calls for due diligence and transparency measures applicable to non-State actors under this framework [, while exercising [particular] / [appropriate] caution when engaging with particular [industries] [and] / [entities].]( DEL ) In order tobe able to strengthen its engagement with non-State actors for the benefit and interest of global public health, WHO needs simultaneously to strengthen its management of the associated potential risks. This requires a robust framework that enables engagement and serves also as an instrument to identify the risks, balancing them against the expected benefits, while protecting and preserving WHOs integrity, reputation and public health mandate. Principles 6. WHOs engagement with non-State actors is guided by the following overarching principles. Any engagement must: (a) demonstrate a clear benefit to public health; (a bis) conform with WHOs Constitution, mandate and general programme of work (b) respect the intergovernmental nature of WHO and the decision-making authority of Member States setout in the WHOs Constitution; (c) support and enhance, without compromising, the scientific and evidence-based approach that underpins WHOs work; (d) Protect WHO from any undue influence, in particular on the processes in setting and applying policies, norms and standards;2 (e) not compromise WHOs integrity, independence, credibility and reputation; 1 WHO Constitution, A rticles 18, 33, 41 and 71 . 2 Policies, norms and standard setting includes information gathering, preparation for, elaboration of and the decision on the normative text. WHA68.9 5 (f) be effectively managed, including by, where possible avoiding conflict of interest1 and other forms of risks to WHO; (g) be conducted on the basis of transparency, openness, inclusiveness, accountability, integrity and mutual respect; Benefits of engagement 7. WHOs engagement with non-State actors can bring important benefits to global public health and to the Organization itself in fulfilment of its constitutional principles and objectives, including its directing and coordinating role in global health. Engagements range from major, longer-term collaborations to smaller, briefer interactions. Benefits arising from such engagement can also include: a) (DELETED) b) the contribution of non-State actors to the work of WHO c) the influence that WHO can have on non-State actors to enhance their acton global public health or to influence the social, economic and environmental determinants of health d) the influence that WHO can have on non-State actors compliance with WHOs policies, norms and standards e) the additional resources non-State acto rs can contribute to WHOs work f) the wider dissemination of and adherence by non-State actors to WHOs policies, norms and standards [g) non-State actors engaging with WHO [fully implement] / [more readily conform with] WHO public health policies [, nor ms and standards], including in their own activities in the areas of food safety, chemical safety, ethical promotion of medicinal drug products, tobacco control and others.] OR g) alt [Improved understanding of and conformity with WHOs policies, norms and standards.] [by non-State actors] Risks of engagement 8 WHOs engagement with non-State actors can involve risks which need tobe effectively managed and, where appropriate, avoided. Risks relate inter alia to the occurrence in particular of the following: (a) conflicts of interest; (b) undue or improper influence exercised by anon-State actor on WHOs work, especially in, but not limited to, policies, norms and standard setting;2 (c) a negative impact on WHOs integrity, independence, reputation and credibility; and public health mandate; 1 setout in paragraphs 23 to 26) 2 Policies, norms and standard setting includes information gatherin g, preparation for, elaboration of and the decision on the normative text. WHA68.9 6 (d) the engagement being primarily used to serve the interests of the non-State actor concerned with limited or no benefits for WHO and public health; (e) the engagement conferring an endorsement of the non-State actors name, brand, product, views or activity;1 (f) the whitewashing of anon-State actors image through an engagement with WHO; (g) a competitive advantage anon-State actor. NON-STATE ACTORS 9. For the purpose of this framework, [a non-State actor is an entity that [operates independently from the government] / [is not part of any State or public institution. N] (DEL) non-State actors include nongovernmental organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations and academic institutio ns. [other international organizations] CHAIRs PROPOSAL 9. alt For the purpose of this framework, a non-State actor is an entity that operates independently from the government is not part of any State or public institution. Non-State actors include nongovernmental organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations and academic institutions. 10 Nongovernmental organizations are non-profit entities that operate independently of governments. They are usually membership-based, with non-profit entities or individuals as members exercising voting rights in relation to the policies of the nongovernmental organization, or are otherwise constituted with non-profit, public-interest goals. They are free from concerns which are primarily of a private, commercial or profit-making nature. They could include, for example, grassroots community organizations, civil society groups and networks, faith-based organizations, professional groups, disease-specific groups, and patient groups. 11. Private sector entities are commercial enterprises, that is to say businesses that are intended to make a profit for their owners. The term also refers to entities that represent, or are governed or controlled by, private sector entities. This group includes (but is not limited to) business associations representing commercial enterprises, entities not at arms length2 from their commercial sponsors, and partially or fully State-owned commercial enterprises acting like private sector entities. International business associations are private sector entities that do not intend to make a profit for themselves but represent the interests of their members, which are commercial enterprises and / or national or other business associations. For the purposes of this framework, they shall have the authority to speak for their members through their authorized representatives. Their members shall exercise voting rights in relation to the policies of the international business association. 1 Endorsement does not include established processes such as prequalifications or the WHO Pesticide Evaluation Scheme (WHOPES). 2 An entity is at arms length from another entity if it is independent from the other entity, does not take instructions and is clearly not influenced or clearly not reasonably perceived tobe influenced in its decisions and work by the other entity. WHA68.9 7 12. Philanthropic foundations are non-profit entities whose assets are provided by donors and whose income is spent on socially useful purposes. They shall be clearly independent from any private sector entity in their governance and decision-making. 13 Academic institutions are entities engaged in the pursuit and dissemination of knowledge through research, education and training.1 14 For each of the four groups of entities above, the overarching framework and the respective specific policy on engagement apply. WHO will determine through its due diligence if anon-State actor is subject to the influence of private sector entities to the extent that the non-State actor has tobe considered itself a private sector entity. Such influence can be exerted through financing, participation indecision gor otherwise. Provided that the decision-making processes and bodies of anon State actor remain independent of undue influence from the private sector, WHO can decide to consider the entity as a nongovernmental organization, a philanthropic foundation ran academic institution, but may apply relevant provisions of the WHOs policy and operational procedures on engagement with private sector entities, such as not accepting financial and in-kind contributions for use in the normative work. TYPES OF INTERACTION 15. The following are categories of interaction in which WHO engages with non-State actors. Each type of interaction can take different forms, be subject to different levels of risk and can involve different levels and types of engagement by the Org anization. Participation 16. Non-State actors may attend various types of meetings organized by WHO. The nature of their participation depends on the type of meeting concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation of non-State actors in consultati ons, hearings, and other meetings is decided ona case-by-case basis by the WHO governing bodies orby the Secretariat. (a) Meetings of the governing bodies . This type involves sessions of the World Health Assembly, the Executive Board and the six regional committees. Non-State actors participation is determined by the governing bodies respective rules of procedure, policies and practices aswell as the section of this framework that deals with official relations. (b) Consultations . This type includes any physical or virtual meeting, other than governing body sessions, organized for the purpose of exchanging information and views. Inputs received from non-State actors shall be made publicly available, wherever possible. (c) Hearings . These are meetings in which the participants can present their evidence, views and positions and be questioned about them but do not enter into a debate. Hearings can be electronic or in person. All interested entities should be invited on the same basis. The participants and p ositions presented during hearings shall be documented and shall be made publicly available, wherever possible. 1 This can include think tanks which are policy-orient ed institutions, as long as they primarily perform research; while international associations of academic institutions are considered as non-governmental organizations, subject to paragraph 14. WHA68.9 8 (d) Other meetings . These are meetings that are not part of the process of setting policies or norms; examples include information meetings, bri efings, scientific conferences, and platforms for coordination of actors. 17. WHOs involvement in meetings organized wholly or partly by anon-State actor can subject to the provisions of this framework, its four specific policies and operational proced ures, and other applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures consist of anyone of the following possibilities: WHO jointly organizes the meeting with the non-State actor WHO cosponsors a meeting1 organized by the non-State actor WHO staff make a presentation or act as panellists at a meeting organized by the non-State actor WHO staff attend a meeting organized by anon-State actor. Resources 18. Resources [can be] / [include] funds, [personnel] OR [personnel for technical work or implementation of WHO s programmes and policies and emergency response,] or in-kind contributions. In-kind contributions include donations of medicines and other goods and free provision of services. OR New text tobe proposed AND / OR 18bis [SPECIFY TYPE OF PERSONNEL] AND / OR [ADD FOOTNOTE SPECIFYING PERSONNEL] [ADD 18ter. The WHO could establish ceiling in the voluntary contribution from non-state actors. Any contribution beyond that amount should go to the core voluntary fund which gives enough freedom to the Secretariat to allocate resources to underfunded programmes. The Member States assessed contributions should be allocated to the programmes that are underfunded under voluntary contribution] / DELETE CHAIRs PROPOSAL 18alt: Resources include funds [ADD FOOTNOTE: [No n-State actors are urged to provide their contribution, as flexible as possible, in line with the General Programme of Work and the Programme 1 Cosponsorship of a meeting means: (1) another entity has the primary responsibility for organizing the meeting; and (2) WHO supports and contributes to the meeting and its proceedings; and (3) WHO reserves the right to clear the agenda of the meeting, the list of participants and the outcome documents of the meetin g. WHA68.9 9 Budget ] personnel, [ADD FOOTNOTE: Personnel does not comprise WHO staff members, or secondments to WHO. Personnel maybe accepted for emergency work. Personnel must never be used for activities related to policies, norms and standard setting.] or in-kind contribution. In-kind contribution include donations of medicines and other goods and free provision of services (A DD FOOTNOTE TO PERSONNEL: short-term contribution by persons employed by non-State actors other than staff secondments [This personnel do not represent the WHO, do not have badge..]) (TO BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH PARAGRAPH 7 OF THE NGO POLICY, PARAGRAPH 15 OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR POLICY, PARAGRAPH 7 OF THE PHILANTHROPIC FOUNDATION POLICY AND PARAGRAPH 8 OF THE ACADEMIC INSTITUTION POLICY) ADD FOOTNOTE: [Non-State actors [are urged to] / [should] provide their [contribution] / [resources], as flexible [and non-earmarked] as possible. As any contribution, it has tobe fully in line with the Programme Budget] OR [ADD FOOTNOTE: [Resources may only be provided in line with the General Programme of Work and Programme Budget and should be as flexible as possible] OR [WHO shall make available a detailed information with regard to the financial or in-kind resources received from non-State actors, including the name of donor, amount, the purpose and allocation.] (TO MOVE AFTER PARA 38) [ADD FOOTNOTE: Personnel does not comprise WHO staff members, or secondments to WHO. Personnel maybe accepted for emergency work. Personnel must never be used for activities related to policies, norms and standard se tting.] or in-kind contribution . Evidence 19. For the purposes of this framework, evidence refers to inputs based on up-to-date information, knowledge on technical issues, and consideration of scientific facts, independently analysed by WHO. Evidence generation by WHO includes information gathering, analysis, generation of information and the management of knowledge and research. Non-State actors may provide their up-to-date information and knowledge on technical issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, subject to the provisions of this framework, its four specific policies and operational procedures, and other applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as appropriate, wherever poss ible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available. Advocacy 20. Advocacy is action to increase awareness of health issues, including issues that receive insufficient attention; to change behaviours in the interest of public health; and to foster collaboration and greater coherence between non-State actors where joint action is required. WHA68.9 10 Technical collaboration 21. For the purpose of this framework, technical collaboration refers toother collaboration with non-State actors, as appropriate, in activities that fall within the General Programme of Work, including: product development capacity-building operational collaboration in emergencies contributing to the implementation of WHOs policies. MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND OTHER RISKS OF ENGAGEMENT 22. Managing, including by, where appropriate, avoiding, conflict of interest and other risks of engagement requ ires a series of steps, setout below:1 WHO needs to know the non-State actors that it engages with. Therefore each non-State actor is required to provide all relevant2 information about itself and its activities, following which WHO conducts the necessary due diligence. WHO conducts a risk assessment in order to identify the specific risks of engagement associated with each engagement with anon-State actor. Risks of engagement need tobe managed and communicated coherently in each of the three levels of the Organization and throughout the Organization. To that end, WHO manages engagement through a single, Organization-wide electronic tool. 3. [Member States [need to] exercise oversight over WHOs engagement with non-State actors. With this in mind, the Director-General reports [annually] on engagement involving non-State actors] [[focusing in particular] / [including] on [policy-related] ( DEL ) challenges arising from the [proposals of engagement referred to the] Engagement Coordination Group] [and to the Director-General] / [and the decision by the DG not to enter into engagement] [and makes it a standing agenda item for the PBAC] [to the [regular meetings of the] Executive Board] through the Programme, Budget and Administration Committee [to the [regul ar meetings of the] Executive Board] [and makes all engagements publicly known through the register of non-State actors.] ( DEL ) (ADD FOOTNOTE: See paragraph 38ter) 1 The framework is designed to regulate institutional engagements; its implementation is closely coordinated with the implementation of other organizational policies regulating conflict of interest in respect of individuals (see paragraph 48). 2 As defined in paragraph 38bis. 3 WHO uses an electronic tool for managing engagement. As described in footnote 1 of paragraph 38, the publicly visible part of the tool is the register of non-State actors; the tool also provides an electronic workflow for the internal management of engagement. A similar electronic tool is used for the management of individual conflicts of interest, in order to harmonize the implementation of the framework with the implementation of the policy on management of individual conflicts of interest for experts. WHA68.9 11 OR SPLIT PARA INTO TWO: PROCESS CONTENT OF THE REPORT OF THE DG NEW CHAIRs PROPOSAL : Member States exercise oversight over WHOs engagement with non-State actors inaccordance with the provisions in paragraphs 64 and 65 [Request the Independent Expert Oversight Advisory Committee to report annually on WHOs engagement with non-state actors, focu sing particularly on cases handled by the Engagement Coordination Group, and to provide Member States with the opportunity to discuss the report with the Chairperson of the Independent Expert Oversight Advisory Committee prior to its adoption by the Progra mme, Budget and Administration Committee] (DEL ) 38ter. [In addition to the publicly available information, Member States have electronic access toa summary report on due diligence of non-State actor, and risk assessments and risk management on engagement. Further details of the information used by the Secretariat to manage such engagement, can be made available for Member States to consult, upon request and as far as legally feasible.] [In addition, Member States have access to proposals of engagement refe rred to the Engagement Coordination Group and the Director-General.] (DEL ) [Conflict of interest] (NOTE: ENTIRE SECTION IN BRACKETS) 23. A conflict of interest arises in circumstances where there is potential fora secondary interest (a vested interest in the outcome of WHOs work in a given area) to unduly influence, or where it maybe reasonably perceived to unduly influence, either the independence or objectivity of professional judgement or actions regarding a primary interest (WHOs work) The existence of conflict of interest in all its forms does not as such mean that improper action has occurred, but rather the risk of such improper action occurring. Conflicts of interest are not only financial, but can take other forms as well. 23bis. Individual co nflicts of interests within WHO are those involving experts, regardless of their status, and staff members; these are addressed inaccordance with the policies listed under paragraph 48 of the present framework. 24. All institutions have multiple interests , which means that in engaging with non-State actors WHO is often faced with a combination of converging and conflicting interests. An institutional conflict of interest is a situation where WHOs primary interest as reflected in its Constitution maybe unduly influenced by the conflicting interest of anon-State actor in away that affects, or may reasonably be perceived to affect, the independence and objectivity of WHOs work. 25. Inactively managing institutional conflict of interest and the other risk s of engagement mentioned in paragraph 8 above, WHO aims to avoid allowing the conflicting interests of anon-State actor to exert, or be reasonably perceived to exert, undue influence over the Organizations decision making processor to prevail over its interests; 26. For WHO, the potential risk of institutional conflicts of interest could be the highest in situations where the interest of non-State actors, in particular economic, commercial or financial, are in conflict with WHOs public health policies, constitutional mandate and interests, in particular the Organizations independence and impartiality in setting policies, norms and standards. WHA68.9 12 Due diligence and risk assessment 27. When the possibility of entering into an engagement is being considered, the relevant technical unit in the Secretariat conducts an initial examination in order to establish whether such an engagement would be in the interest of the Organization and in line with the principles of WHOs engagement with non-State actors in paragraph 6 and the priorities defined in the General Programme of Work and Programme budget. If this seems tobe the case, the technical unit asks the non-State actor to provide its basic information. Using the Organization-wide electronic tool, the unit then complements this information with a description of the proposed engagement and its own assessment of the benefits and risks involved. This information is then transmitted toa specialized central unit which is responsible for analysing the information provided. 28. Before engaging with any non-State actor, WHO, in order to preserve its integrity, conducts due diligence and risk assessment . Due diligence refers to the steps taken by WHO to find and verify relevant information anon-State actor and to reach a clear understanding of its profile. While due diligence refers to the nature of the non-State actor concerned, risk assessment refers to the assessment of a specific proposed engagement with that non-State actor. 29. Due diligence combines a review of the information provided by the non-State actor, asearch for information about the entity concerned from other sources, and an analysis of all the information obtained. This includes a screening of different public, legal and commercial sources of information, including: media; the entitys website companies analyst reports, directories and profiles; and public , legal and governmental sources. 30. The core functions of due diligence are to: clarify the nature and purpose of the entity proposed to engage with WHO; clarify the interest and objectives of the entity in engaging with WHO and what it expects in return; determine the entitys legal status, area of activities, membership, go vernance, sources of funding, constitution, statutes, and by-laws and affiliation; define the main elements of the history and activities of the entity in terms of the following: health, human and labour issues; environmental, ethical and business issues; reputation and image; and financial stability; ORIGINAL CHAIR / S PROPOSAL Identify if the nature or activities of aNSA are incompatible with WHO / s work and mandate (e.g. links tobe tobacco and arms industries) or if they require the Organization to exercise particular caution when engaging with the entity (e.g. links toother industries affecting human health or affected by WHO / s norms and standards (FOOTNOTE As described in paragraph 44) OR [Identify if the nature or activities of anon-State actor and the type of relationship foreseen with WHO are incompatible with WHOs work and mandate or if they require the Organization to exercise particular caution when engaging with the entity after applying the provisions of paragraphs 44 and 44bis] OR [Identify if the nature or activities of anon-State actor are incompatible with WHO / s work WHA68.9 13 and mandate or if they require the Organization to exercise particular caution when engaging ] 31. Due diligence also allows the Secretariat for the purpose of its engagement to categorize each non-State actor in relation to one of the four groups of non-State actors on the basis of its nature, objectives, governance, funding, independence and membership. This categorization is indicated in the register of non-State actors. 32 Risks are the expression of the likelihood and potential impact of an event that would affect the Organizations ability to achieve its objectives. A risk assessment ona proposed engagement is conducted in addition to due diligence. This involves the assessment of risks associated with an engagement with anon-State actor, in particular the risks described in paragraph 8 . Risk management 33. Risk management concerns the process leading toa management decision whereby the Secretariat decides explicitly and justifiably on entry into engagement continuation of engagement, engagement with measures to mitigate risks, non-engagement or disengagement from an existing or planned engagement with non-State actors. It is a management decision usually taken by the unit engaging with the non-State actor. 34. The specialized unit responsible for performing due diligence and risk assessment, as described in paragraph 27, formulates recommendations on the engagement-related options listed in paragraph 33 above, along with reasons for such recommendations. If the proposing unit agrees with the recommendations, it implements them. If there are disagreements, they can be referred to the Engagement Coordination Group. (FOOTNOTE: The Engagement Coordination Group is a Secretariat group appointed by the Director-General that includes representation from regional offices.) 35 The Engagement Coordination Group reviews referred proposals of engagement and recommends engagement, continuation of engagement, engagement with meas ures to mitigate risks, non-engagement or disengagement from an existing or planned engagement with non-State actors. In cases where the unit responsible for the engagement disagrees with this recommendation, the final decision rests with the Director-Gene ral. 36. In line with WHOs risk management framework WHO takes a risk-management approach to engagement, only entering into an engagement with anon-State actor when the benefits in terms of director indirect contributions to public health and the fulf ilment of the Organizations mandate as mentioned in paragraph 7 outweigh any residual risks of engagement as mentioned in paragraph 8, aswell as the time and expense involved in establishing and maintaining the engagement. Transparency 37. WHOs interaction with non-State actors [is] / [should be] managed transparently. WHO provides the governing bodies with annual reports on its engagement with non-State actors [, including 1 Other than decisions related to official relations setout in paragraphs 49 to 55. 2 See document EB133 / 10. WHA68.9 14 the work of the Engagement Coordination Group] and makes publicly available basic information on the non-State actors it engages with and the individual engagements concerned. OR [WHOs interaction with non-State actors is managed transparently. WHO provides the governing bodies with annual reports on its engagement with non-State actors, [, including a summary information of the due diligence, risk assessment and risk management undertaken by the Secretariat.] including the work of the Engagement Coordination Group, and makes publicly available appropriate information on the non-State actors it engages with and the individual engagements concerned.] [, including a summary report of the due diligence, risk assessment and risk management undertaken by the Secretariat.] (CHAIRS PROPOSAL TO KEEP THE CHAIRS TEXT ONLY) 38. The WHO register of non-State actors is an Internet-based, publicly available electronic tool used by the Sec retariat1 to document and coordinate engagement with non-State actors. It contains the main standard information provided by non-State actors2 and high-level descriptions of the engagement that WHO has with these actors ( FOOTNOTE 3) ; [FOOTNOTE 3: The register covers all three levels of the Organization global, regional and country and includes hosted partnerships and joint programmes] 38bis. Non-State actors engaging with WHO are required to provide information on their organization. This information includes: name, legal status, objective, governance structure, composition of main decision-making bodies, assets, annual income and funding sources, main relevant affiliations, webpage and one or more focal points for WHO contacts. 38bis. [Non-State actor s engaging with WHO are required to provide information on their organization. This information includes: name, membership, legal status, objective, governance structure, composition of main decision-making bodies, assets, annual income and funding sources , main relevant affiliations, webpage and one or more focal points for WHO contacts.] 38ter [The due diligence reports, [including] ( DELETE ) the decisions related to risk assessment and risk management [, including decisions to refuse to engage] / ( DELETE ) will be made available to Member States] [and relevant information shall be made publicly available] / ( DELETE ) OR [The due diligence and risk assessment reports, aswell as decisions on engagement-related options listed in paragraph 33, will be made available to Member States.] 38ter. OLD CHAIRs TEXT: [In addition to the publicly available information, Member States have electronic access toa summary report on due diligence of non-State actor, and risk assessments and risk management on engagement. Further details of the information used by the Secretariat to manage 1 The register of non-State actors is the first level of a tool used by the Secretariat containing four levels of information: a publicly available level, a level made available to Member States, a working level for the Secretariat, anda level of confidential and sensitive information accessible toa limited number of individuals within the Secretariat . 2 Information on financial contributions received from non-State actors is documented in this register and in the Programme Budget web portal . WHA68.9 15 such engagement, can be made available for Member States to consult, upon request and as far as legally feasible.] NEW CHAIRs TEXT: 38ter. In addition to the publicly available informati on, Member States have electronic access toa summary report on due diligence of non-State actor, and risk assessments and risk management on engagement. [ Further details of the information used by the Secretariat to manage such engagement, can be made available for Member States to consult, upon request and as far as legally feasible.] Furthermore Member States can search for such information concerning cases considered by the engagement coordination group. AND [Add to resolution text a timeline for establ ishing and rolling out the register.] (CHAIRS PROPOSAL TO KEEP THE CHAIRS TEXT FOR 38, 38BIS AND 38TER. A REFERENCE TO THE ROLLING OUT OF THE REGISTER HAS BEEN ADDED TO THE RESOLUTION) 39. When the Secretariat decides on an engagement with anon-State act or, a summary of the information submitted by that entity and held in the WHO register of non-State actors is made public. The accuracy of the information provided by the non-State actor and published in the register is the responsibility of the non-State actor concerned and does not constitute any form of endorsement by WHO. 40. Non-State actors described in the register must update the information provided on themselves annually or upon the request of WHO. Information in the WHO register of non-State acto rs will be dated. Information on entities that are no longer engaged with WHO or that have not updated their information will be marked as archived. Archived information from the WHO register of non-State actors can be considered in relation to future ap plications for engagement, where relevant. 41. WHO maintains a handbook to guide non-State actors in their interaction with WHO in line with this framework. A guide for staff is also maintained on the implementation of the framework for engagement with non-State actors.-------------------- NOTE: The following text from paragraph 41 has been parked to serve as input for discussions on paragraph 48 [this shall be applied in conjunction with the framework] ( DELETE :) OR [All the relevant WHO guidelines will be [aligned] / [coordinated] with this framework (FOOTNOTE: LIST ALL RELEVANT DOCUMENTS)] OR MOVE (AS FOOTNOTE) TO PARAGRAPH 48 WHA68.9 16 (CHAIRS PROPOSAL DELETE ALL YELLOW AS IT WILL BE DISCUSSED IN PARAGRAPH 48)-------------------- 42. (DELETED) 43. (DELETED) SPECIFIC PROVISIONS 44. WHO does not engage with the tobacco or arms industries [and its affiliates] (CHAIRS PROPOSAL TO ACCEPT AND ITS AFFILIATES) [Engagement with particular industries] / [non-state actors] 44bis. [WHO will exercise [particular] / [appropriate] / ( DEL ) caution [consistent with and subject to the rules of this framework] especially while conducting due diligence and risk assessment analyses when engaging with [non-state actors] / [other industries] / [private sector and some i ndustries] [negatively] affecting human health, or affected by the WHOs norms and standards.][STOP HERE] [[such as] / [for example][, but not limited to,] alcohol and food and beverage industries] CHAIRS PROPOSAL: 44 bis WHO will exercise particular caution especially while conducting due diligence and risk assessment when engaging with private sector entities or other non-State actors affected by WHOs policies, norms and standards. Association with WHOs name and emblem 45. WHOs name and emblem are recog nized by the public as symbols of integrity and quality assurance. WHOs name, acronym and emblem shall not, therefore, be used for, or in conjunction with, commercial, promotional marketing and advertisement purposes. Any use of the name or emblem needs an explicit written authorization by the Director-General of WHO.1 Secondments 46. [WHO does not accept secondments from non-State actors.] / (DELETE:) OR [WHO does not accept secondments from private sector entities. Secondments from other types of non-State actors shall be accepted, inaccordance with WHA67 / 7.] OR 1 See . WHA68.9 17 [WHO can accept secondments from non-State actors for technical work or implementation of WHOs programmes and policies and emergency response.] CHAIRS PROPOSAL: 46. WHO does not accept secondmen ts from non-State actors RELATION OF THE FRAMEWORK TO WHOS OTHER POLICIES 47. This framework replaces the Principles Governing Relations between the World Health Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations1 and the Guidelines on interaction with commercial enterprises to achieve health outcomes (noted by the Executive Board).2 48. The implementation of the framework for engagement with non-State actors is coordinated [and aligned] with the [related polices listed below. In the case of conflict, this framework will prevail.] / [following related policies], which remain valid. [In the case of conflict, this framework shall prevail over the policies listed below] : OR [The implementation of the policies listed below will be coordinated and aligned with the framework of engagement with non-State actors.] [[(a) WHOs engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements3] [(i) Hosted partnerships derive their legal personality from WHO and are subject to the organizations rules and regulations. Therefore the framework applies to their engagement with non-State actors. They have a formal governance structure, separate from that of the WHO governing bodies, in which decisions are taken on direction, work plans and budgets; and their programmatic accountability frameworks are also independent from those of the Organization. In the same way the framework applies toother hosted entities which are subject to the Organizations Rules and Regulations .] [(ii) WHOs involvement in external partnerships is regulated by the policy on WHOs engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements. For the management of risks of WHOs engagement in these partnerships the present framework for engagement with non-State actors applies.] OR [(a) Partnerships and entities hosted by WHO will be subject to this framework as applicable for WHO.] [For hosted partnership the framework of engagement with non-State actors will apply, subject to WHOs policy on engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements (resolution WHA63.10).] 1 Basic documents, 47 th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2009: 81 86. 2 See document EB107 / 2001 / REC / 2 , summary record of the twelfth meeting. 3 Endorsed by the Health Assembly in resolution WHA63.10 on partnerships. WHA68.9 18 (b) The management of WHOs relations with individual experts is regulated by the Regulations for Expert Advisory Panels and Committees1 and the Guidelines for Declaration of Interests (WHO Experts). (c) The Organizations Staff Regulations and Staff Rules and in particular the provisions of declaration of interest therein: according to Article 1.1 of the Staff Regulations of the World Health Organization, all staff memb ers pledge themselves to discharge their functions and to regulate their conduct with the interests of the World Health Organization only in view. (d) Scientific collaborations are regulated by the Regulations for Study and Scientific Groups, Collaborati ng Institutions and other Mechanisms of Collaboration.2 (e) The procurement of goods and services is regulated by the Financial Rules and Financial Regulations;3 it not covered by the framework for engagement with non-State actors, although pro-bono contri butions from non-State actors are covered. (f) Like any other financing of WHO, financing from non-State actors should be considered as part of the financing dialogue and is regulated by the Financial Rules and Financial Regulations; the decision on accept ing such a financial contribution is regulated by this framework. CHAIRS PROPOSAL: ACCEPT TEXT, DELETE TEXT IN SQUARE BRACK ETS TOBE ADDRESSED IN THERES OLUTION: OR [48a) alt. WHOs involvement in external partnerships is regulated by the policy on WHOs engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements and the current framework, in a complementary way. In particular, for the purposes of due diligence, risk assessment and risk management of WHOs involvement informal partnerships, the current framework will apply.] OFFICIAL RELATIONS 49. Official relations is a privilege that the Executive Board may grant to nongovernmental organizations, international business associations and philanthropic foundations that have had and continue to ea sustained and systematic engagement4 in the interest of the Organization. The aims and activities of all these entities shall be inconformity with the spirit, purposes and principles of WHOs Constitution, and they shall contribute significantly to the advancement of public health. Organizations inofficial relations can attend governing body meetings of WHO but are otherwise subject to the same rules as other non-State actors when engaging with WHO. 1 See Basic documents, 47th ed. Gen eva: World Health Organization; 2009, pp 104 112 ( PDF / bd47 / EN / basic-documents-47-en.pdf , accessed 1 December 2014). 2 Basic documents, 47th ed. Genev a: World Health Organization; 2009, pp.113 120. 3 Basic documents, 47th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2009, pp.87 97. 4 At least two years of systematic engagement as documented in the WHO register of non-State actors, assessed by both parties tobe mutually beneficial. Participation in each others meetings alone is not considered tobe a systematic engagement. WHA68.9 19 50. [All entities inofficial relations shall have a constitution or similar basic document, an established headquarters, a directing or governing body, an administrative structure, anda regularly updated entry in the WHO register of non-State actors.] OR 50alt. [Entities inofficial relations (INSERT FOOT NOTE) are international in membership and / or scope. All entities inofficial relations shall have a constitution or similar basic document, an established headquarters, a directing or governing body, an administrative structure, anda regularly updated entry in the WHO register of non-State actors.] [FOOTNOTE: Before working relations are established between WHO anda national NGO, and before a programme of collaboration with such an organization is agreed, appropriate measures will be taken to consult with the government concerned inaccordance with article 71 of the WHO Constitution).] OR 50alt OLD CHAIRs PROPOSAL Entities inofficial relations are international in membership and [ / or] scope. All entities inofficial relations shall have a constitution or similar basic document, an established headquarters, a [directing] / [steering] or governing body, an administrative structure, anda regularly updated entry in the WHO register of non-State actors. (+ DELETION OF PARAGRAPH 55) CHAIRS PROPOSAL NEW : Entit ies inofficial relations are international in membership and / or scope. All entities inofficial relations shall have a constitution or similar basic document, an established headquarters, a governing body, an administrative structure, anda regularly upd ated entry in the WHO register of non-State actors. (+ DELETION OF PARAGRAPH 55) 51. A plan for collaboration [with agreed objectives / results / targets and] [based on mutually agreed objectives and] (DELETE) outlining activities for the coming three-year period structured inaccordance with the General Programme of Work and Programme budget shall form the basis of official relations between WHO and organizations inofficial relations. This plan shall also be published in the WHO register of non-State actor s. These organizations shall provide annually a short report on the progress made in implementing the plan of collaboration and other related activities which will also be published in the WHO register. CHAIRS PROPOSAL : Art. 51. Official relations shall be based ona plan for collaboration between WHO and the entity with agreed objectives and outlining activities for the coming three-year period structured inaccordance with the General Programme of Work and Programme budget This plan shall also be publishe din the WHO register of non-State actors. These organizations shall provide annually a short report on the progress made in implementing the plan of collaboration and other related activities which will also be published in the WHO register. 52. The Executive Board shall be responsible for deciding on the admission of organizations into official relations with WHO and shall review this status every three years. The Director-General may propose international nongovernmental organizations, philanthropic foun dations and international WHA68.9 20 business associations for admission. The Director-General can also propose an earlier review based on the experience in the collaboration with the organization concerned. 53. Entities inofficial relations are invited to participate in sessions of WHOs governing bodies. This privilege shall include: (a) the possibility to appoint a representative to participate, without right of vote, in meetings of WHOs governing bodies or in meetings of the committees and conferences convened under its authority; (b) the possibility to make a statement if the Chairman of the meeting (i) invites them to do so or (ii) accedes to their request when an item in which the related entity is particularly interested is being discussed; (c) the possibility to submit the statement referred to in subparagraph (b) above in advance of the debate for the Secretariat to post ona dedicated website. 54. Non-State actors participating in WHO governing bodies meetings shall designate ahead of their delegation and declare the affiliations of their delegates. This declaration shall include the function of each delegate within the non-State actor itself and, where applicable, the function of that delegate within any affiliated organization. 55. [Entities inofficial relations are international in membership and / or scope. The organization or its affiliates can also attend meetings of the regional committees. Regional committees may decide ona procedure granting accreditation to their meetings toother non-State actor snot inofficial relations as long as the procedure is managed inaccordance with this framework.] (DISCUSS WITH P51) (CHAIR PROPOSAL TO DELETE PARAGRAPH 55 SINCE IT IS MERGED WITH PARAGRAPH 50) Procedure for admitting and reviewing organizations inofficial relations 56. The application for admission into official relations shall be based on the up-to-date entries in the WHO register of non-State actors, providing all the necessary information as requested on the non-State actors nature and activities. The application shall include a summary of past engagement as documented in the register of non-State actors anda three-year plan for collaboration with WHO that has been developed and agreed on jointly by the non-State actor and WHO. 57. A signed letter c ertifying the accuracy of the application for official relations submitted online shall reach WHO headquarters no later than the end of the month of July for submission to the Executive Board at its session the following January. Applications for official relations shall be reviewed to ensure that the established criteria and other requirements are fulfilled setout in this framework. Applications should be transmitted to the Executive Board members by the Secretariat six weeks before the opening of the January session of the Executive Board at which they will be considered. 58. The entities inofficial relations and the Secretariat should name focal points for collaboration who are responsible for informing each other and their organizations of any devel opments in the implementation of the plan for collaboration and who are the first points of contact for any changes or problems. [MOVE PARA TO AFTER P61] WHA68.9 21 59. During the Boards January session, the Programme, Budget and Administration Committee shall consider applications submitted and shall make recommendations to the Board. A representative of an applicant organization maybe invited by the Committee to speak before it in connection with that organizations application. Should the applicant organization be considered not to meet the established criteria, and bearing in mind the desirability of ensuring a valuable continuing partnership based on defined objectives and evidenced by a record of successful past engagement anda framework for future collaborative activities, the Committee may recommend postponement of consideration or rejection of an application. 60. The Board, after considering the recommendations of the Committee, shall decide whether an organization is tobe admitted into official relations with WHO. A reapplication from anon-State actor shall not normally be considered until two years have elapsed since the Boards decision on the previous application. 61. The Director-General shall inform each organization of the Boards decision on its app lication. The Director-General shall document decisions taken within the Secretariat and by the Executive Board on applications from non-State actors, reflect this status in the WHO register of non-State actors, and maintain alist of the organizations admitted into official relations. 62. The Board, through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee, shall review collaboration with each non-State actor inofficial relations every three years and shall decide on the desirability of maintaining official relations or defer the decision on the review to the following year. The Boards review shall spreadover a three-year period, one third of the entities inofficial relations being reviewed each year. 63. The Director-General can propose earlier r eviews of anon-State actors official relations with WHO by the Executive Board through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee incase of issues such as non-fulfilment of the entitys part in the plan of collaboration, lack of contact, failure by the non-State actor to fulfil its reporting requirements or changes in the nature or activities of the organization concerned, the non-State actor ceasing to fulfil the criteria for admission, or any potential new risks for the collaboration. 64. Board may discontinue official relations if it considers that such relations are no longer appropriate or necessary in the light of changing programmes or other circumstances. Similarly, the Board may suspend or discontinue official relations if an organization no longer meets the criteria that applied at the time of the establishment of such relations, fails to update its information and report on the collaboration in the WHO register on non-State actors or fails to fulfil its part in the agreed programme of collaboration. [ACCREDITATION OF NG OS 64 bis Tobe eligible for accreditation to the Health Assembly, Executive Board and committees and conferences convened under their authority, a nongovernmental organization shall: (a) have aims and purposes consistent with WHOs Constitution and inconformity with the policies of the Organization aswell as resolutions and decisions adopted by the Executive Board and the World Health Assembly; (b) demonstrate competence in afield of activity related to the work of WHO; WHA68.9 22 (c) have membership and / or activities that are international in scope; (d) be non-profit and public interest in nature, and in its activities and advocacy; (e) have an established structure, a constitutive act, and accountability mechanisms; (f) fora membership organization, have the authority to speak for its members and have a representative structure; The Membership should not contain private sector entities, individuals associated with private sector entities or philanthropic foundations and academic institutions not at arms length with private sector; (g) have existed formally for at least three years as of date of receipt of the application by WHO; (h) disclose information on its objectives, structure, membership of executive body, field of activities and source of financing, and, where applicable, its status with other entities of the United Nations system; (i) agree to provide WHO regularly with updated information aswell as to inform WHOof any changes with respect to its status as non-gove rnmental organization as soon such changes take place. Completed applications should reach WHO headquarters by the beginning of June in order tobe considered by the Executive Board in January of the following year. Applications should be transmitted to Member States by the Secretariat two months in advance of the session at which they will be considered. Are-application from a nongovernmental organization shall not be considered until two years have elapsed since the Boards decision on the original a pplication. Once a nongovernmental organization is accredited, information gathered on its objectives, structure, membership of executive body, field of activities and source of funding, including updated information, shall be made publicly available. report on accredited nongovernmental organizations shall be submitted every two years to the Executive Board.] (CHAIRS PROPOSAL: DELETE ) OVERSIGHT OF ENGAGEMENT 65. The Executive Board, through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee, oversees the implementation of WHOs framework of engagement with non-State actors, proposes revisions to the framework and can grant the privileges of official relations to international nongovernmental organizations, philanthropic foundations and international business associations. 66. The Programme Budget and Administration Committee shall review, provide guidance and, as appropriate, make recommendations to the Executive Board on: (a) oversight of WHOs implementation of the framework for engagement with non-State actors including: (i) consideration of the annual report on engagement with non-State actors submitted by the Director-General which provides a summary of engagements and highlights challenges arising from such engagement. WHA68.9 23 AND (i bis) [consideration of the annual report of the Independent Expert Oversight Advisory Committee on WHOs engagement with non-State actors] (ii) any other matter on engagement referred to the Committee by the Board (b) entities inofficial relations with WHO, including: (i) proposa ls for admitting non-State actors into official relations (ii) review of renewals of entities inofficial relations (c) any proposal, when needed, for revision of the framework of engagement with non-State actors. CHAIRS PROPOSAL: KEEP TEXT INCLUDING ibis NON-COMPLIANCE WITH THIS FRAMEWORK 67. Non-compliance can include inter alia the following: significant delays in the provision of information to the WHO register of non-State actors; the provision of wrong information; the use of the engagement with WHO for commercial, promotional, marketing and advertisement purposes; [engagement in [political activities] / [partisan politics];] misuse of WHOs name and emblem; and abuse of the privileges conferred by official relations. CHAIRS PROPOSAL 67 alt: Non-compliance can include inter alia the following: significant delays in the provision of information to the WHO register of non-State actors; the provision of wrong information; the use of the engagement with WHO for commercial, promotional, marketing and advertisement purposes; misuse of WHOs name and emblem; misuse of the fact of engaging with WHO for other than public health purposes, and abuse of the privileges conferred by official relations. 68. Non-compliance by anon-State actor with the provisions of this framework can have conseq uences for the entity concerned after due process including a reminder, a warning, a cease-anddesist letter, a rejection of renewal of engagement and termination of engagement. The review of the status of official relations by the Executive Board can be a nticipated and non-compliance can be the reason for non-renewal of official relations. Except in the case of important and intentional cases of non-compliance the non-State actor concerned should not be automatically excluded from other engagements with WH O. 69. Any financial contribution received by WHO that is subsequently discovered tobe non-compliant with the terms of this framework shall be returned to the contributor. MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF THE FRAMEWORK 70. The implementation of the framework will be constantly monitored internally through the engagement coordination group and by the Executive Board through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee in the annual report on engagement with non-State actors and the assessment of information available in the register of non-State actors. WHA68.9 24 71. Furthermore, the implementation of the framework should be periodically evaluated. The results of such evaluation, together with any proposals for revisions of the framework, shall also be submitted to the Executive Board through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee .[PERIODICITY TOBE DECIDED BY THE RESOLUTION] [New72. The following steps shall be taken for the effective implementation of the framework: (a) Review existing list of non-State actors inofficial relation and to apply the categorization of non-State actors setout in this framework. (b) Review of WHOs existing external and hosted partnerships, collaborations in the light of this framework and to take appropriate measures to avoid and manage risk. Towards this purpose the Secretariat should invite comments from the public. (c) Review and amend all the policies listed in Paragraph 48 of EB136 / 5 to fully align those policies with the existing framework. Towards this end, Secretariat will hold web consultations open for Member States and public to pinpoint the areas of the existing policies which need tobe reviewed and amended in the light of framework; (d) The non-State actors registry shall be made operational within six m onths of the adoption of the framework of engagement with non-State actors.] [MAKE REFERENCE TO THE RESOLUTION] (CHAIRS PROPOSAL : DELETE 72 AS ISSUE SARE ADDRESSED IN THE RESOLUTION) WHA68.9 25 DRAFT WHO POLICY AND OPERATIONAL PROCEDUR ES ON ENGAGEMENT WITH NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS 1. Nongovernmental organizations make important contributions to global health because they often have deep roots in local communi ties, have special flexibilities to respond to health needs, represent affected populations and other key groups, and promote innovative solutions. Therefore WHO engages with this group of key actors in global health in order to leverage their support in the fulfilment of WHOs mandate. (CHAIRS PROPOSAL TO KEEP THE PARAGRAPH) 2. This policy regulates specifically WHOs engagement with nongovernmental organizations by type of interaction.1 The generic provisions of the framework also apply to all engagements with nongovernmental organizations. PARTICIPATION Participation by nongovernmental organizations in WHO meetings2 3. WHO can invite nongovernmental organizations to participate in consu ltations, hearings or other meetings inaccordance with paragraph 16 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings can be electronic or in person. 4. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the nongovernmental organization has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the deliberations of the meeting. Such participation is for the exchange of information and views, but never for the formulation of advice. 4bis. The nature of participation of nongovernmental organizations depends on the type of meeting concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation of nongovernmental organizations in consultations, hearings, and other meetings is decided ona case-by-case basis the WHO governing bodies orby the Secretariat. Participation and inputs received from nongovernmental organizations shall be made publicly available, wherever possible. Nongovernmental organizations do not take part in any decision making process of the Org anization. Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by nongovernmental organizations 5. WHO can organize joint meetings, or cosponsor meetings organized by nongovernmental organizations, as long as the integrity and independence of the Organization are preserved, and as long as this participation furthers WHOs objectives as expressed in the General Programme of Work. WHO staff members may participate in meetings organized by nongovernmental organizations inaccordance with the internal rules of the Organization. The nongovernmental organization shall not misrepresent WHOs participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and shall agree not touse WHOs participation for promotional purposes. 1 See paragraphs 15 21 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction. 2 Other than sessions of the governing bodies , which are regulated by the policy on management of engagement . WHA68.9 26 Operational procedures 6. The participation of WHO in meetings organized by nongovernmental organizations as co-organizers, cosponsors, panellists or speakers shall be managed according to the provisions of the framework for engagement with non-State actors. RESOURCES 7. WHO can accept funds, personnel and in-kind contributions from nongovernmental organizations as long as such contributions fall within WHOs General Programme of Work, do not create conflicts of interest, are managed inaccordance with the framework, and comply with other relevant regulations, rules and policies of WHO. KEEP TEXT; ADD FOOTNOTE TO PERSONNEL: Contribution of personnel are only acceptable for short term assignments that do not involve normative work and if potential risks are managed inaccordance with this framework. 8. WHO can provide resources toa nongovernmental organization for implementation of particular work inaccordance with the Programme budget, the Financial Regulations and Financial Rules and other applicable rules and policies. The resour ces concerned can be either fora project of the institution which WHO considers merits support and is consistent with WHOs programme of work, or fora project organized or coordinated by WHO. The former constitutes a grant, the latter a service. Specific policies and operational procedures 9. Any acceptance of resources from a nongovernmental organization is handled inaccordance with the provisions of this framework and relevant other rules such as the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules, the Financial Reg ulations and Financial Rules and WHOs policies governing procurement. 10. For reasons of transparency, contributions and donations from nongovernmental organizations must be publicly acknowledged by WHO inaccordance with its policies and practices. 11. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: The World Health Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [Nongovernmental organization] towards [description of the outcome or activity]. 12. Contributions received from nongovernmental organizations are listed in the financial report and audited financial statements of WHO aswell as the Programme budget web portal and the WHO register of non-State actors. 13. Nongovernmental organizations may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their materials used for commercial, promotional, marketing and advertisement purposes. However, they may make reference to the contribution in their annual reports or similar documents. In addition, they may mention the contribution on their websites, and in special non-promotional publications, provided that the content and context have been agreed with WHO. WHA68.9 27 EVIDENCE 14 Nongovernmental organizations may provide their up-to-date information and knowledge on technical issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, subject to the provisions of the overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as appropriate, wherever possible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available. ADVOCACY 15. WHO collaborates with nongovernmental organizations on advocacy for health and increasing awareness of health issues; for changing behaviours in the interest of public health; and for fostering collaboration and greater coherence between non-State actors where joint action is required. 16. WHO favours independent monitoring functions and therefore engages with nongovernmental organizations working in this field. Nongovernmental organizations are encouraged to disseminate WHOs policies, guidelines, norms and standards and other tools through their networks so as to extend WHOs own reach. TECHNICAL COLLABORATION 17. The Secretariat is encouraged to undertake technical collaboration with nongovernmental organizations, provided that it is in the interests of the Organization and managed inaccordance with the framework for engagement with non-State actors. WHA68.9 28 DRAFT WHO POLICY AND OPERATIONAL EON ENGAGEMENT WITH PRIVATE SECTOR ENTITIES 1. Private sector entities are key players in global health as providers, both within and beyond the health sector, of goods and services that can have important effects on health. Therefore WHO engages with this group of key actors in global health to improve their positive contribution, limit their negative effects on health and leverage their support in the fulfilment of WHOs m andate. AND [This policy is applicable to private sector firms, international business associations, academic institutions and philanthropic foundations not at arms length with the private sector and other not-forprofit organizations, which are not qualified as NGOs under the overarching framework on the engagement of non-State actors.] CHAIR PROPOSAL : KEEP FIRST VERSION ALTERNATIVE 2. This policy regulates specifically WHOs engagement with private sector entities by type of interaction.1 The general pr ovisions of the framework also apply to all engagements with private sector entities. CHAIR PROPOSAL : KEEP TEXT 3. [In engaging with private sector entities, WHO will aim to operate ona competitively neutral basis.] OR DELETE CHAIR PROPOSAL : KEEP TEXT PARTICIPATION Participation by private sector entities in WHO meetings2 4. WHO can invite private sector entities to participate in consultations, hearings or other meetings inaccordance with paragraph 16 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings can be electronic or in person. 5. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the private sector entity has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the deliberations of the meeting. Such participation is for the exchange of information and views, but never for the formulation of advice. 5bis The nature of participation of private sector entities depends on the type of meeting concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation of private sector entities in consultations, hearings, and other meetings is decided ona case-by-case basis by the WHO governing bodies orby the Secretariat. 1 See paragraphs 15 21 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction. 2 Other than sessions of the governing bodies , which are regulated by the policy on management of engagem ent. WHA68.9 29 Participation and inputs received from private sector entities shall be made publicly available, wherever possible. Private sector entities do not take part in any decision making process of the Organization. Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by private sector entities 6. WHO staff members may participate in meetings organized by a private sector entity as long as the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are preserved and as long as this participation furthers WHOs objectives as expressed in the General Programme of Work. The private sector entity shall not misrepresent WHOs participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and shall agree not touse WHOs participation for commercial and / or promotional purposes. Specific policies and operational procedures 7. The participation of WHO staff members in meetings of private sector entities as panellists, speakers or in any other capacity shall be managed according to the provisions of the overarching framework and this specific policy. 8. WHO does not cosponsor meetings organized wholly or partly by private sector entities. It may, however, cosponsor a meeting for which the scientific initiators have hired a commercial conference organizer to deal with the logistical aspects, provided that the commercial organizer makes no contribution to the scientific content of the meeting. 9. WHO does not cosponsor meetings organized by other actors where one or more health-related private sector entities are also cosponsors. Other instances of cosponsorship of meetings organized by other actors where non health-related private sector entities are also cosponsors should be reviewed ona case-by-case basis and are subject to the provisions of this framework. 10. There shall beno commercial exhibitions on WHO premises and at WHOs meetings. 11. WHO does not c osponsor commercial exhibitions, whether as part of meetings organized by private sector entities or as part of meetings organized by other actors. RESOURCES 12. The level of risk associated with the acceptance of resources from private sector entities depends on the field of activity of the private sector entity, the WHO activity for which the resources are used and the modalities of the contributions. (a) Funds maybe accepted from private sector entities whose business is unrelated to that of WHO, provided they are not engaged in any activity [or affiliated with any entity] that is incompatible with WHOs mandate and work. (b) Funds may not besought or accepted from private sector entities that have, themselves or through their affiliated companies, direct commercial interest in the outcome of the project toward which they would be contributing, unless approved inconformity with the provisions for clinical trials or product development (see paragraph 38 below). WHA68.9 30 (c) Caution should be exercised in accep ting financing from private sector entities that have even an indirect interest in the outcome of the project (i.e. the activity is related to the entities field of interest, without there being a conflict as referred to above). In such an event, other commercial enterprises having a similar indirect interest should be invited to contribute, and the reason clearly described if this does not prove possible. The larger the proportion of the contribution from anyone source, the greater the care that should be taken to avoid the possibility of a conflict of interest or appearance of an inappropriate association with one contributor. [(d) WHO shall not receive financial resources from private sector entities aswell as non-state actors with links to private sector entities whose activities [or advocacy] are undermining the mandate of WHO as stated in its Constitution] / DISCUSS WITH PARA 44 [(e) The WHO should establish ceiling in the voluntary contribution from non-state actors. Any contribution beyond that amount should go to the core voluntary fund which gives enough freedom to the Secretariat to allocate resources to underfunded programmes. The Member States assessed contributions should be allocated to the programmes that are underfunded under voluntary contr ibution] / OR MOVE TO 18ter in the overarching framework / DELETE CHAIRS PROPOSAL a) Funds maybe accepted from private sector entities whose business is unrelated to that of WHO, provided they are not engaged in any activity or have close ties with any entity that is incompatible with WHOs mandate and work. DELETE d) AND e) 13. Financial and in-kind contributions from private sector entities to WHOs programmes are only acceptable in the following conditions: (a) the contribution is not used for normative work; (b) if a contribution is used for activities other than normative work in which the private sector entity could have a commercial interest, the public health benefit of the engagement needs clearly to outweigh its potential risks; (c) the proportion of funding of any activity coming from the private sector cannot be such that the programmes continuation would become dependent on this support; (d) the acceptance of the contribution does not constitute an endorsement by WHOof the private sector entity , or its activities, products or services; (e) the contributor may not use the results of WHOs work for commercial purposes or use the fact of its contribution in its promotional material; (f) the acceptance of the contribution does not afford the contributor any privilege or advantage; (g) the acceptance of the contribution does not offer the contributor any possibility for advising, influencing, participating in, or being in command of the management or implementation of operational activities; WHA68.9 31 (h) WHO keeps its discretionary right to decline a contribution, without any further explanation. 14. [The Director-General can setup mechanisms for pooling contributions from multiple sources, if the mechanisms are designed in such a manner as to avoid any perceived influence from the contributors on WHOs work; if the mechanism is open to all interested contributors; and if the mechanism is subject to the conditions in paragraph 12 above and transparency is achieved through the WHO register of non-State ac tors and the Programme budget web portal]. CHAIRS PROPOSAL KEEP TEXT Specific policies and operational procedures 15. Any acceptance of financial, personnel or in-kind contribution from private sector entities shall be managed inaccordance with this framework and based ona signed agreement. KEEP TEXT; ADD FOOTNOTE TO PERSONNEL: Contribution of personnel are only acceptable for short term assignments that do not involve normative work and if potential risks are managed inaccordance with this framework. 16 For reasons of transparency, contributions from private sector entities must be publicly acknowledged by WHO inaccordance with its policies and practices. 17. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: The World Health Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [Private sector entity] towards [description of the outcome or activity]. 18. Contributions received from private sector entities, are listed in the financial report and audited financial statement s of WHO aswell as the Programme budget web portal and the register of non-State actors. [18bis. Any donation received by WHO which is subsequently discovered tobe noncompliant with this framework shall be returned to the donor.] CHAIR PROPOSAL: SIT IS COVERED BY O VERARCHING FRAMEWORK PARAGRAPH 69 19. Private sector entities may not use [WHOs logo] / [[such] / [ the] results of WHOs work for commercial purposes] and may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their promotional materials. However, they may make reference to their contribution in their corporate annual reports or similar documents. In addition they may mention the contribution in a transparency listing on their websites, in special non-promotional or product-related corporate responsibility pages on their website and in similar publications provided that the content and context have been agreed with WHO . CHAIRS PROPOSAL Art. 19 alt : Private sector entities may not use the results of WHOs work to which they have contributed for commercial purposes and may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their promotional materials. However, they may make reference to their contribution in their corporate annual reports or similar documents. In addition they may mention the contribution in a transparency listing on their websites, in special non-promotional or product-related corporate WHA68.9 32 responsibility pages on their website and in similar publications provided that the content and context have been agreed with WHO. (COMMENT: USE OF NAME AND EMBLEM IS REGULATED BY REGULATED BY PARAGRAPH 45 OF THE OVERARCHING FRAMEWORK Donations of medicines and other health technologies1 20. In determining the acceptability of large-scale donations of medicines and other health-related products, the following criteria should be met. (a) Sound evidence exists of the safety and efficacy of the product in the indication for which it is being donated. The product is approved or otherwise authorized by the recipient country for use in that indication; it should also preferably appear in the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines for that indication. (b) Objective and justifiable criteria for the selection of recipient countries, communities or patients have been determined. In emergency situations, flexibilities maybe required. (c) A supply system is in place and consideration is given to means of preventing waste, theft and misuse (including leakage back into the market). (d) A training and supervision programme is in place for all personnel involved in the efficient administration of supply, storage and distribution at every point from the donor to the end-user. (e) A donation of medicines and other health-related products is not of a promotional nature, either with regard to the company itself or insofar as it creates a demand for the products that is not sustainable once the donation has ended. (f) WHO does not accept products at the end of their shelf life. (g) A phase-out plan for the donation has been agreed upon with recipient countries. (h) A system for monitoring adverse reactions to the product has been upwith the participation of the donating company. 21. In consultation with the department responsible for financial matters in WHO, the value of donations of medicines and other health-related products is determined and is formally recorded in the audited statements and the WHO register of non-State actors. Financial contributions for clinical trials 22. Except as provided in paragraph 38 below on product development, financial contributions from a commercial enterprise fora clinical trial arranged by WHO on that companys proprietary product 1 Such donations shall be in line with interagency guidelines : World Health Organization, Ecumenical Pharmaceutical Network, International Pharmaceutical Federation, International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, International Health Partners, The Partnership for Quality Medical Donations, et al. Guidelines for medicine donations revised 2010 . Geneva: World Health Organization; 2011. WHA68.9 33 are considered ona case-by-case basis and always decided by the Engagement coordination group. In this connection, it should be ens ured that: (a) the research or development activity is of public health importance; (b) the research is conducted at WHOs request and potential conflicts of interest are managed; (c) WHO only accepts such financial contributions, if the research would not take place without WHOs involvement or if WHOs involvement is necessary in order to ensure that the research is undertaken inconformity with internationally accepted technical and ethical standards and guidelines. 23 If the above-mentioned requirements are met, a financial contribution maybe accepted from a company having a direct commercial interest in the trial in question, provided that appropriate mechanisms are put in place to ensure that WHO controls the conduct and the dissemination of the outco mes of the trials, including the content of any resulting publication, and that the trial results are free from any inappropriate influence or perceived influence from the company concerned. Contributions for WHO meetings 24. For meetings convened by WHO, a contribution from a private sector entity may not be accepted if it is designated to support the participation of specific invitees (including such invitees travel and accommodation), regardless of whether such contribution would be provided directly to the participants or channelled through WHO. 25. Contributions maybe accepted to support the overall costs of a meeting. 26. WHO receptions and similar functions shall not bepaid forby private sector entities. Contributions for WHO staff participating in external meetings 27. An external meeting is one convened by a party other than WHO. Support from private sector entities for travel of WHO staff members to attend external meetings or conferences may fall into two categories: (a) meetings held by the private sector entity paying for travel: financing for travel maybe accepted inaccordance with WHOs rules if the private sector entity is also supporting the travel and ancillary expenses of other participants in the meeting, and the risk of a conflict of interest has been assessed and managed; (b) meetings held by a third party (i.e. a party other than the private sector entity proposing to pay for the travel): financing for travel may not be accepted from a private sector entity. Contributions for publ ications 28. Funds maybe accepted from private sector entities for meeting the printing costs of WHO publications, as long as no conflict of interest arises. In no event may commercial advertisements be placed in WHO publications. WHA68.9 34 Contributions for financ ing staff salaries 29. [Funds designated to support the salary of specific staff members or posts (including short-term consultants) may not be accepted from private sector entities] [STOP HERE] [if they could give rise areal or perceived conflict of interest in relation to WHOs work. ] (DELETE) OR (DELETE PARAGRAPH) CHAIR PROPOSAL: DELETE PARAGRAPH Cost recovery 30. In cases where a WHO evaluation scheme is in place (i.e. to evaluate certain products, processes or services against official WHO guidelines), the Organization may charge private sector entities for such services on the basis of cost recovery. The purpose of WHOs evaluation schemes is always to provide advice to governments and / or international organizations for procurement. Evaluation does not constitute endorsement by WHOof the product(s), processor service in question. EVIDENCE 31. Private sector entities may provide their up-to-date information and knowledge on technical issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropria te, subject to the provisions of the overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as appropriate, wherever possible . Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available. [31bis. If information gathering is done in the preparation of the development of norms and standards, private sector entities can only be involved in the form of hearings] / (DEL ) 32. Indiv iduals working for interested private sector entities are excluded from participating inexpert groups; however, expert groups need tobe able, where appropriate, to conduct hearings with such individuals in order to access their knowledge. CHAIRS PROPOSAL KEEP TEXT ADVOCACY 33. WHO encourages private sector entities to implement and advocate for the implementation of WHOs norms and standards. WHO engages in dialogue with private sector entities in order to promote the implementation of WHOs policies, no rms and standards. 34. Private sector entities can only collaborate with WHO in advocacy for the implementation of a WHO norm or standard if they commit themselves to implement these norms and standards in their WHA68.9 35 entirety. No partial or selective implementation is acceptable. [SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SPECIFIC PARAGRAPHS IN THE FOUR SPECIFIC POLICIES] CHAIRS PROPOSAL KEEP TEXT IN THIS POLICY ONLY 35. International business associations are encouraged to work with their members in order to improve their public health impact and the implementation of WHO policies, norms and standards. TECHNICAL COLLABORATION 36. Technical collaboration with the private sector is welcomed if potential risks of engagement are managed or mitigated and provided that the normative work of WHO is protected from any undue influence and there is no interference with WHOs advisory function to Member States. OR [Technical collaboration with the private sector is welcomed provided that it is in the interests of the Organization and managed inaccordance with the framework for engagement with non-State actors.] [and [in particular] provided that the normative work of WHO is protected from any undue influence and there is no interference with WHOs advisory function to Member States.] CHAIR PROPOSAL 36 alt : Technical collaboration with the private sector is welcomed provided that it is in the interests of the Organization and managed inaccordance with this framework and in particular provided that the normative work of WHO is protected from any undue influence and there is no interference with WHOs advisory function to Member States.] Specific policies and operational procedures 37. If WHO has drawn up official specifications fora product, it may provide technical advice to manufacturers for development of their product inaccordance with these specifications, provided that all private sector entities known to have an interest in such a product are given the opportunity to collaborate with WHO in the same way. Product development 38. WHO collaborates with private sector entities in the development of health-related technology, either by conduc ting research and development on their products and supporting transfers and licensing of technology orby licensing its intellectual property to such enterprises. Collaborative research and development, technology transfer and licensing should, as a general rule, be undertaken only if WHO and the entity concerned have concluded an agreement cleared by the Office of the Legal Counsel that ensures that the final product will ultimately be made widely available [and] [,] accessible, [and affordable,] (DELETE) including to [ the public sector ] (DELETE) of low- and middle-income countries [ at a preferential price ] (DELETE). If such an agreement is concluded, financing maybe accepted from the private sector entity fora clinical trial arranged by WHO on the product in question, as contractual commitments obtained from the entity in the public interest outweigh any potential conflict of interest in accepting the financial contribution. These contributions should be distinguished from the acceptance of contributions fora clinical trial arranged by WHO ona proprietary product as described in paragraph 23. OR WHA68.9 36 [ALTERNATIVE LANGUAGE AT HIGHER LEVEL] OR [CHAIRS PROPOSAL] 38alt. WHO collaborates with private sector entities in the development of health-related technology, either by conducting research and development on their products and supporting transfers and licensing of technology orby licensing its intellectual property to such enterprises based on an agreement cleared by the Office of the Legal Counsel. Such collaboration must contribute to increasing access to quality, safe, efficacious and affordable medical products. If such an agreement is concluded, financing maybe accepted from the private sector entity fora clinical trial arranged by WHO on the product in question, as contractual commitments obtained from the entity in the public interest outweigh any potential conflict of interest in accepting the financial contribution. These contributions should be distinguished from the acceptance of contribu tions fora clinical trial arranged by WHO ona proprietary product as described in paragraph 23. (COMMENT TO CHAIRS PROPOSAL ON PARAGRAPH: THE TEXT increasing access to quality, safe, efficacious and affordable medical products COMES FROM THE AGREED LEADERSHIP PRIORITIES OF THE 12TH GENERAL PROGRAMME OF WORK) WHA68.9 37 DRAFT WHO POLICY AND OPERATIONAL PROCEDUR ES ON ENGAGEMENT WITH PHILANTHROPIC F OUNDATIONS 1. Philanthropic foundations are making significant contributio ns to global health in general, and to WHOs work in particular, in many areas ranging from innovation to capacity-building and to service delivery. Therefore WHO engages with this group of key actors in global health to leverage their support in the fulfi lment of WHOs mandate. (CHAIRS PROPOSAL TO KEEP THE PARAGRAPH) 2. This policy regulates specifically WHOs engagement with philanthropic foundations by type of interaction.1 The generic provisions of the framework also apply to all engagements with philanthropic foundations. PARTICIPATION Participation by philanthropic foundations in WHO meetings2 3. WHO can invite philanthropic foundations to participate in consultations, he arings or other meetings inaccordance with paragraph 16 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings can be electronic or in person. 4. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the philanthropic foundation has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the deliberations of the meeting. Such participation is for the exchange of information and views, but never for the formulation of advice. 4bis. The nature of participation of philanthropic foundations depends on the type of meeting concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation of philanthropic foundations in consultations, hearings, and other meetings is decided ona case-by-case basis by the WHO governing bodies orby the Secretariat. Participation and inputs received from philanthropic foundations shall be made publicly available, wherever possible. Philanthropic foundations do not take part in any decision making process of the Organization. Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by philanthropic foundations 5. WHO can organize joint meetings, or cosponsor meetings organized by philanthropic foundations, as long as the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are preserved, and as long as this participation furthers WHOs objectives as expressed in the General Programme of Work. WHO staff members may participate in meetings organized by philanthropic foundations inaccordance with the Organizations internal rules. The philanthropic foundat ions shall not misrepresent WHOs participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and shall agree not touse WHOs participation for promotional purposes. 1 See paragraphs 15 21 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction. 2 Other than sessions of the governing bodies , which are regulated by the policy on management of engagement . WHA68.9 38 Operational procedures 6. The participation of WHO in meetings organized by philanthropic foundations as co-organizers, cosponsors, panellists or speakers shall be managed according to the provisions of the framework for engagement with non-State actors. RESOURCES 7. WHO can accept funds, personnel and in-kind contributions from philanthropic foundations as long as such contributions fall within WHOs General Programme of Work, do not create conflicts of interest, are managed inaccordance with the framework, and comply with other relevant regulations, rules and policies of WHO. KEEP TEXT; ADD FOOTNOTE TO PERSONNEL: Contribution of personnel are only acceptable for short term assignments that do not involve normative work and if potential risks are managed inaccordance with this framework. 8. As for all contributors, philanthropic foundations shall align their contributions to the priorities set by the Health Assembly in the approved Programme budget. 9. Philanthropic foundations are invited to participate in the financing dialogue, which is designed to improve the alignment, pre dictability, flexibility and transparency of WHOs funding and to reduce budgetary vulnerability. 10. WHOs programmes and offices should strive to ensure that they do not depend on one single source of funding. 11. The acceptance of contributions (whethe r in cash or in kind) should be made subject to the following conditions: (a) the acceptance of a contribution does not constitute an endorsement by WHOof the philanthropic foundation; (b) the acceptance of a contribution does not confer on the contributor any privilege or advantage; (c) the acceptance of a contribution as such does not offer the contributor any possibility for advising, influencing, participating in, or being in command of the management or implementation of operational activities; (d) WHO keeps its discretionary right to decline a contribution, without any further explanation. Specific policies and operational procedures 12. Any acceptance of resources from a philanthropic foundation is handled inaccordance with the provisions of this framework and relevant other rules such as the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules, the Financial Regulations and Financial Rules and WHOs policies governing procurement. WHA68.9 39 13. For reasons of transparency, contributions from philanthropic foundations must be publicly acknowledged by WHO inaccordance with its policies and practices. 14. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: The World Health Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [Philanthropic foundation] towards [description of the outcome or activity]. 15. Contributions received from philanthropic foundations are listed in the financial report and audited financial statements of WHO aswell as the Programme budget web portal and the WHO register of non-State actors. 16. Philanthropic foundations may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their promotional materials. However, they may make reference to the contribution in their annual reports or similar documents. In addition, they may mention the contribution in a transparency listing on their websites, in special non-promotional pages of their website and similar publications, provided that the content and context have been agreed with WHO. EVIDENCE 17. Philanthropic foundation s may provide their up-to-date information and knowledge on technical issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, subject to the provisions of the overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as appropriate, wherever possible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available. ADVOCACY 18. WHO collaborates with philanthropic foundations on advocacy for health and increasing awareness of health issues; for changing behaviours in the interest of public health; and for fostering collaboration and greater coherence between non-State actors where joint action is required. Philanthropic foundati ons are encouraged to disseminate WHOs policies, guidelines, norms and standards and other tools through their networks so as to extend WHOs own reach. TECHNICAL COLLABORATION 19. The Secretariat is encouraged to undertake technical collaboration with philanthropic foundations provided that it is in the interests of the Organization and managed inaccordance with the framework for engagement with non-State actors. WHA68.9 40 DRAFT WHO POLICY AND OPERATIONAL PROCEDUR ES ON ENGAGEMENT WITH ACADEMIC INSTIT UTIONS 1. Academic institutions contribute to global health through education, research, clinical care and the generation, synthesis and analysis of evidence. Therefore, WHO engages with this group of key actors in global health to leverage their support in the fulfilment of WHOs mandate. (CHAIRS PROPOSAL TO KEEP THE PARAGRAPH) 2. This policy regulates specifically WHOs engagement with academic institutions by type of interaction.1 The generic provisions of the framework also apply to all engagements with academic institutions. 3. The engagement with academic institutions at the institutional level has tobe distinguished from the collaboration with individual experts working for academic institutions. PARTICIPATION Participation by academic institutions in WHO meetings 4. WHO can invite academic institutions to participate in consultations, hearings or other meetings inaccordance with paragraph 16 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings can be electronic or in person. 5. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the academic institution has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the deliberations of the meeting. Such participation is for the exchange of information and views, but never for the formulation of advice. 5bis. The nature of participation of academic institution depends on the type of meeting concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation of academic institution in consultations, hearings, and other meetings is decided ona case-by-case basis by the WHO governing bodies orby the Secretariat. Participation and inputs received from academic institutions shall be made publicly available, wherever possible. Academic ins titutions do not take part in any decision making process of the Organization. Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by academic institutions 6. WHO can organize joint meetings, or cosponsor meetings organized by academic institutions, as long as the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are preserved, and as long as this participation furthers WHOs objectives as expressed in the General Programme of Work. WHO staff members may participate in meetings organized by academic institutions inaccordance with the Organizations internal rules. The academic institution shall not misrepresent WHOs participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and shall agree not touse WHOs participation for promotional purposes. 1 See paragraphs 15 21 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction. WHA68. 9 41 Operational procedures 7. The participation of WHO in meetings organized by academic institutions as co-organizers, cosponsors, panellists or speakers shall be managed according to the provisions of the framework for engagement with non-State actors. RESOURCES 8. WHO can accept funds, personnel and in-kind contributions from academic institutions as long as such contributions fall within WHOs General Programme of Work, do not create conflicts of interest, are managed inaccordance with the framework, and comply with other relevant regulations, rules and policies of WHO. KEEP TEXT; ADD FOOTNOTE TO PERSONNEL: Contribution of personnel are only acceptable for short term assignments that do not involve normative work and if potential risks are managed inaccordance with this framework. 9. WHO can provide resources to an academic institution for implementation of particular work (such as research, a clinical trial, laboratory work and preparation of a document). This can be either fora project of the institution which WHO considers merits support and is consistent with WHOs programme of work, or fora project organized or coordinated by WHO. The former constitutes a grant, the latter a service. Specific policies and operational procedures 10. Any acceptance of resources from an academic institution is handled inaccordance with this framework and relevant other rules such as the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules, the Financial Regulations and Financial Rules and WHOs policies governing procurem ent. 11. For reasons of transparency, contributions from academic institutions must be publicly acknowledged by WHO inaccordance with its policies and practices. 12. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: The World Health Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [academic institution] towards [description of the outcome or activity]. 13. Contributions received from academic institutions are listed in the financial report and audited financial stat ements of WHO aswell as the Programme budget web portal and the WHO register of non-State actors. 14. Academic institutions may not use the results of WHOs work for commercial purposes and may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their promotional materials. However, they may make reference to the contribution in their annual reports or similar documents. In addition they may mention the contribution in a transparency listing on their websites, in special non-promotional pages of their w ebsite and similar publications, provided that the content and context have been agreed with WHO. WHA68. 9 42 EVIDENCE 15. Academic institutions may provide their up-to-date information and knowledge on technical issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropr iate, subject to the provisions of the overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as appropriate, wherever possib le. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available. 16. Intellectual property arising from collaborations with academic institutions is regulated by the agreement with the academic institution. This should be addressed in consultation with the Office of the Legal Counsel. ADVOCACY 17. WHO collaborates with academic institutions on advocacy for health and increasing awareness of health issues; for changing behaviours in the interest of public health; and for fostering collaboration and greater coherence between non-State actors where joint action is required. WHO favours independent monitoring functions and therefore engages with academic institutions working in this field. Academic institutions are encouraged to disseminate WHOs polici es, guidelines, norms and standards and other tools through their networks so as to extend WHOs own reach. TECHNICAL COLLABORATION 18. The Secretariat is encouraged to undertake technical collaboration with academic institutions, provided that it is in the interests of the Organization and managed inaccordance with the framework for engagement with non-State actors. 19. Scientific collaborations are regulated by the Regulations for Study and Scientific Groups, Collaborating Institutions and other Mechanis ms of Collaboration.1 20. Academic institutions or parts thereof can be designated as WHO collaborating centres inaccordance with the Regulations mentioned above. In this context, before granting the status of WHO collaborating centre a due diligence and risk assessment inaccordance with this framework is conducted. The collaboration with these collaborating centres is regulated by the aforementioned regulations and reflected in the register of non-State actors. Ninth plenary meeting, 26 May 2015 A68 / VR / 9 = = = 1 Basic documents , 47th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2009, pp 113120.