The Thirty-sixth World Health Assembly, Recognizing that oral health is deteriorating in developing countries, despite the availability of effective preventive methods which have markedly improved, nd Continue improve, oral health in many industrialized countries to Recognizing that bilateral cooperation focused on measures to arrest the deterioration in oral health in developing countries and to ensure permanent maintenaiiice of any improvements achieved is not only possible but is particularly called for at the present time Appreciating the clear ahd practical strategy avilbl^ for chievng better oral health ona worldwide scle ; :r 1. CALLS upon all Member States to follow the available strategy whn devloping their national oral health strategies ; 2. URGES all Member States touse the facilities for coordination and collaboration availbl thrugh WHO and in particular its International Co1lborativ OrI HeaIth Development Programme mentioned in the attached strategy; 3. REQUESTS the Director-Genral: (i) to mobilize available resources in setting up the International Collaborative Oral Health Development Programme in order to respond effectively to requests from Member States regarding all aspects of their national oral health strategies, thus taking advantage of a special opportunity tcf redeploy human and other resources to achieve health for all (ii) to report on progress to future World Health Assemblies through his biennial report. Twelfth Plenary Meeting, 13 May 1983 A36 / VR / 12 See Annex. WHA36.14 page 2 ANNEX FOUR-POINT COUNTRY ACTION PROGRAMME ANNEX Establish a coordinated planning process in oral for analysing oral health situations. health, using the standard WHO system 2. Within national plans thus formulated, emphasize level and integrate oral health into the general relevant referral system. prevention at the primary health care health infrastructure including a 3. Identify obstacles to achievement of national plans 4. Use the WHO International Collaborative Oral Health Development Programme mentioned below to overcome those obstacles. ROLE OF WHO IN SUPPORT OF COUNTRY ACTION PROGRAMMES 1. Establish a WHO International Collaborative Oral Health Development Programme, as outlined in documents EB7l / l983 / REc / 2, pages 175-176 and / lNF.DOC. / 2, page 3, incorporating the optimal deployment of all resources available to the Organization. 2 Collaborate with Member States in performing situation analyses, in developing national policies, goals, plans and programmes in the light of these analyses and in identifying obstacles to achievement of those goals. 3. Participate with governments in identifying activities required and the support needed through the WHO International Collaborative Oral Health Development Programme. 4. Promote and coordinate health services research and other research required to ensure the achievement of country goals in oral health. 1 Strategy for Oral Health summarized from / 84-85 and / lNF.DOC. / 2