Considering that the projects that have been carried on by WHO jointly with UNICEF are among the most important activities of WHO and have contributed greatly to the improvement of maternal and child health awide basis ; Believing that the co-operative relationship which has proved tobe so effective should be maintained and strengthened ; Considering that WHO, as the directing and co-ordinating agency in international health, is the best source of technical knowledge and competence within the international field ; Recognizing that UNICEF, originally an emergency organization, has recently been put on an indefinite basis ; Noting that UNICEF has been instructed by the General Assembly of the United Nations to : "... as appropriate, obtain from inter-governmental and non-governmental organizations having a special interest in child and family welfare the advice and technical assistance which it may require for the implementation of its programmes ; " 1 Noting that under this general policy UNICEF is now reimbursing WHO for certain of the technical personnel provided by WHO for joint projects under provisions of the agreement reached by the UNICEF / WHO Joint Committee on Health Policy in 1949 ; 2 Recognizing the importance of maintaining a proper balance within the WHO programme as between maternal and child care programmes and other numerous public-health needs and governmental requests ; Recognizing that the different systems of financing and budgeting within UNICEF and WHO create disturbing uncertainties in planning, The Seventh World Health Assembly 1. EXPRESSES its gratitude to UNICEF for its close co-operation and active support to WHO in strengthening national health services with particular reference to services for children and mothers ; 2. REAFFIRMS the principle enunciated by the Fifth World Health Assembly to the effect that : "... WHO should assume, subject to the limitation of its financial resources, the responsibility for the employment of the technical personnel needed for joint activities tobe initiated in the future ; " 3 3. DECIDES that WHO must maintain a balanced public-health programme ; 4. REQUESTS the Director-General to include in future programmes for joint UNICEF / WHO activities only projects for which he is sure that the technical personnel engaged by the Organization can be remunerated ; 5. REQUESTS the Executive Board to determine, in agreement with the UNICEF Executive Board, the conditions under which certain joint projects could be implemented in the event of the finances required exceeding the ordinary resources of the Organization ; and, further, 6. REQUESTS the Executive Board to report on this matter to the Eighth World Health Assembly. Handb. Res., 2nd ed., 8.1.5 Adopted at the tenth plenary meeting, 20 May 1954 (section 2 of the fourth report of the Committee on Programme arid Budget)