FIFTY-THIRD WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA53.13
Agenda item 17 20 May 2000
Collaboration within the United Nations system and
with other intergovernmental organizations
Aligning the participation of Palestine in the World Health
Organization with its participation in the United Nations
The Fifty-third World Health Assembly,
Bearing in mind United Nations General Assembly resolution 52/250 adopted on 7 July 1998
and entitled “Participation of Palestine in the work of the United Nations”,
DECIDES to confer upon Palestine in the World Health Assembly and other meetings of the
World Health Organization, in its capacity as an observer, the rights and privileges described in theAnnex to the aforementioned resolution of the United Nations General Assembly.
1
RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
52/250. Participation of Palestine in the work of the United Nations
The General Assembly ,
Recalling  its resolution 181 (II) of 29 November 1947, in which, inter alia , it recommended the
partition of Palestine into a Jewish State and an Arab State, with Jerusalem as a corpus separatum ,
Recalling also  its resolution 3237 (XXIX) of 22 November 1974, by which it granted observer
status to the Palestine Liberation Organization,
Recalling further  its resolution 43/160 A of 9 December 1988, adopted under the item entitled
"Observer status of national liberation movements recognized by the Organization of African Unityand/or by the League of Arab States", in which it decided that the Palestine Liberation Organization was
entitled to have its communications issued and circulated as official documents of the United Nations,
                                                     
1 See resolution 52/250 and Annex, below.WHA53.13
2Recalling  its resolution 43/177 of 15 December 1988, in which it acknowledged the proclamation of
the State of Palestine by the Palestine National Council on 15 November 1988 and decided that thedesignation "Palestine" should be used in place of the designation "Palestine Liberation Organization" in
the United Nations system,
Recalling also  its resolutions 49/12 A of 9 November 1994 and 49/12 B of 24 May 1995, through
which, inter alia , arrangements for the special commemorative meeting of the General Assembly on the
occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, in addition to applying to all Member andobserver States, were also applied to Palestine, in its capacity as observer, including in the organizing
process of the list of speakers for the commemorative meeting,
Recalling further  that Palestine enjoys full membership in the Group of Asian States and the
Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia,
Aware  that Palestine is a full member of the League of Arab States, the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and the Group of 77 and China,
Aware also  that general democratic Palestinian elections were held on 20 January 1996 and that the
Palestinian Authority was established on part of the occupied Palestinian territory,
Desirous  of contributing to the achievement of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, thus
attaining a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East,
1. Decides  to confer upon Palestine, in its capacity as observer, and as contained in the annex to
the present resolution, additional rights and privileges of participation in the sessions and work of theGeneral Assembly and the international conferences convened under the auspices of the Assembly or
other organs of the United Nations, as well as in United Nations conferences;
2. Requests  the Secretary-General to inform the General Assembly, within the current session,
about the implementation of the modalities annexed to the present resolution.
89th plenary meeting
7 July 1998
ANNEX
The additional rights and privileges of participation of Palestine shall be effected through the
following modalities, without prejudice to the existing rights and privileges:
1. The right to participate in the general debate of the General Assembly.
2. Without prejudice to the priority of Member States, Palestine shall have the right of inscription
on the list of speakers under agenda items other than Palestinian and Middle East issues at any plenary
meeting of the General Assembly, after the last Member State inscribed on the list of that meeting.
3. The right of reply.
4. The right to raise points of order related to the proceedings on Palestinian and Middle East
issues, provided that the right to raise such a point of order shall not include the right to challenge the
decision of the presiding officer.
5. The right to co-sponsor draft resolutions and decisions on Palestinian and Middle East issues.
Such draft resolutions and decisions shall be put to a vote only upon request from a Member State.WHA53.13
36. The right to make interventions, with a precursory explanation or the recall of relevant General
Assembly resolutions being made only once by the President of the General Assembly at the start of
each session of the Assembly.
7. Seating for Palestine shall be arranged immediately after non-member States and before the
other observers; and with the allocation of six seats in the General Assembly Hall.
8. Palestine shall not have the right to vote or to put forward candidates.
Eighth plenary meeting, 20 May 2000
A53/VR/8
=     =     =