Twenty-sixth World Health Assembly, Considering the need for amendment of certain of the provisions of the International Health Regulations (1969); and Having regard to Articles 2(k), 21(a) and 22 of the Constitution of the World Health Organization, ADOPTS, this 23 May 1973, the following Additional Regulations : ARTICLE I PART I DEFINITIONS Article 1 The definition of "airport" should be deleted and replaced by: "means any airport designated by the Member State in whose territory it is situated as an airport of entry and departure for international air traffic, where the formalities incident to customs, immigration, public health animal and plant quarantine and similar procedures are carried out." PART III HEALTH ORGANIZATION Article 21 Paragraph 1 : delete subparagraphs {b) and (c). PART V SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO EACH OF THE DISEASES SUBJECT TO THE REGULATIONS Chapter II. Cholera Article 63. Delete. Article 64. Re-word to read as follows and re-number as Article 63 : 1. If on arrival of a ship, aircraft, train, road vehicle or other means of transport a case of cholera is discovered, ora case has occurred on board, the health authority {a) may apply surveillance or isolation of suspects among passengers or crew fora period not to exceed five days reckoned from the date of disembarkation (b) shall be responsible for the supervision of the removal and safe disposal of any water, food (excluding cargo), human dejecta, waste water including bilge water, waste matter, and any other matter which is considered tobe contaminated, and shall be responsible for the disinfection of water tanks and food handling equipment. 2. Upon accomplishment of (Jb) the ship, aircraft, train, road vehicle or other means of transport shall be given free pratique." Articles 65-69 inclusive. Delete. Article 70. Re-word to read as follows and re-number as Article 64: Foodstuffs carried as cargo on board ships, aircraft, trains, road vehicles or other means of transport in which a case of cholera has occurred during the journey may not be subjected to bacteriological examination except by the health authorities of the country of final destination." Article 71. Retain text unchanged and re-number as Article 65. PART VI HEALTH DOCUMENTS Article 92. Subparagraph 1. Delete reference to Appendix 2 and re-number accordingly. Subparagraph 3. Re-word to read as follows: "International certificates of vaccination must be signed in his own hand by a medical practitioner or other person authorized by the national health administration : his official stamp is notan accepted substitute for his signature." Subparagraph 5. Delete reference to Appendix 2 and re-number accordingly. Appendix 2. Delete and re-number Appendices accordingly. ARTICLE II The period provided in the execution of Article 22 of the Constitution of the Organization for rejection or reservation shall be three months from the date of the notification by the Director-General of the adoption of these Additional Regulations by the World Health Assembly. ARTICLE III These Additional Regulations shall come into force on the first day of January 1974. ARTICLE IV The following final provisions of the International Health Regulations (1969) shall apply to these Additional Regulations : paragraph 3 of Article 100paragraphs 1 and 2 and the first sentence of paragraph 5 of Article 101102 and 103substituting the date mentioned in Article III of these Additional Regulations for that mentioned therein, 104 to 107 inclusive. IN FAITH WHEREOF we have set our hands at Geneva this twenty-fourth day of May 1973. (signed) J. SULIANTI President of the Twenty-sixth World Health Assembly (signed) M. G. CANDAU Director-General of the World Health Organization Handb. Res., Vol. I1.8.1.4 Sixteenth plenary meeting, 23 May 1973 (Committee B, fifth report)