 
 
 
SIXTY-FIRST WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA61.11 Agenda item 17.1 24 May 2008 
Method of work of the Health Assembly 
 
The Sixty-first World Health Assembly, 
Having considered the report on method of work of the Health Assembly,1 
1. DECIDES to add to its Rules of Procedure of the World Health Assembly a new Rule 12bis, as 
follows: 
Rule 12bis 
At each session the provisional agenda and, subj ect to Rule 12, any proposed supplementary 
item, together with the report of the General Co mmittee thereon, shall be submitted to the Health 
Assembly for its adoption as soon as possible after the opening of the session. 
2. DECIDES to delete Rules 24 and 25 of the Rul es of Procedure of the World Health Assembly; 
3. DECIDES to amend Rules 26, 31, 34, 36, 68, and 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the World 
Health Assembly as follows, on the understanding that the Rules of Procedure shall be renumbered as 
a consequence of the deletion of Rules 24 and 25: 
Rule 26 
 At each regular session, the Health Assembly shall elect a President and five vice-presidents, 
who shall hold office until th eir successors are elected. 
Rule 31 
 The General Committee of the Health Assembly shall consist of the President and vicepresidents of the Health Assembly, the chairmen of the main committees of  the Health Assembly 
established under Rule 34 and that num ber of delegates to be elected by the Health Assembly as shall 
provide a total of twenty-five members of the General Committee, provide d that no delegation may 
have more than one representative on the Committee.  The President of the Health Assembly shall 
convene, and preside over, meeti ngs of the General Committee. 
[…] 
                                                      
1 Document A61/30. WHA61.11 
 
 
  
 
 
2 Rule 34 
[…] 
The chairmen of these main committees sha ll be elected by the Health Assembly. 
Rule 36 
Each main committee shall elect two vice-chairmen and a rapporteur. 
Rule 68 
If two or more proposals are moved, the Health Assembly shall, unless it decides otherwise, 
vote on the proposals in the order in which they ha ve been circulated to all delegations, unless the 
result of a vote on a proposal makes unnecessary any other voting on the prop osal or proposals still 
outstanding. 
Rule 92 
Verbatim records of all plenary meetings and su mmary records of the meetings of the General 
Committee and of committees and sub-committees shall be  made by the Secretariat. Unless otherwise 
expressly decided by the committee concerned, no reco rd shall be made of the proceedings of the 
Committee on Credentials other than the report presen ted by the Committee to the Health Assembly. 
4. DECIDES that the Health Assembly shall con tinue to follow its current practice concerning 
equitable geographical representation in the nomina tion of candidates for elected positions in the 
Health Assembly and its subsidiary bodies, with a view to such nominations being received by the 
Director-General no later than the opening of each session of the Health Assembly. 
5. FURTHER DECIDES that the foregoing changes to  its Rules of Procedure shall take effect 
from the closure of its Sixty-first session. 
Eighth plenary meeting, 24 May 2008 
A61/VR/8 
 
=     =     = 