 
 
 
SIXTY-THIRD WORLD HEAL TH ASSEMBLY WHA63.10 
Agenda item 18.1 21 May 2010 
Partnerships 
 
The Sixty-third World Health Assembly, 
Having considered the report on partnerships;1 
Recognizing the critical need for, and contribu tion of, collaborative work by WHO to achieve 
health outcomes and the divers ity of such collaborations; 
Noting that WHO’s Constitution, the Eleventh  General Programme of Work, 2006–2015 and 
the Medium-term strategic plan 2008–2013 describe collaboration and coordina tion as core functions 
of the Organization; 
Noting further that the growth of health part nerships and other forms of collaboration have 
increased greatly in the past decade; 
Considering the need for WHO to have a polic y governing its engageme nt in, and hosting of, 
partnerships in a manner that avoids duplication of WHO’s core  responsibilities in partnerships’ 
activities. 
Welcoming the collaboration of WHO with stakeholders based on clear distinction of roles that 
creates added value, synergies and coordina tion among different programmes that support 
achievement of global and national health  outcomes and reduced transaction costs, 
1. ENDORSES the policy (as annexed) on WHO’s e ngagement with global health partnerships 
and hosting arrangements; 
2. CALLS UPON Member States to take the polic y into account when seeking engagement by the 
Director-General in partnerships, in partic ular with regard to hosting arrangements; 
3. INVITES concerned organizations of the Unite d Nations system, international development 
partners, international financia l institutions, nongovernmental organizations, representatives of 
communities affected by diseases, and private-secto r entities to enhance their collaboration with 
WHO, in a synergistic manner, in order to attain the strategic objectives contained in the Medium-term 
strategic plan 2008–2013; 
                                                      
1 Documents A63/44 and A63/44 Corr.1. WHA63.10 
 
 
  
 
 
2 4. REQUESTS the Director-General: 
(1) to continue collaboration with concerned organizations of the United Nations system, 
international development part ners, international financia l institutions, nongovernmental 
organizations, representatives of communities aff ected by diseases, and private-sector entities in 
implementing the Medium-term st rategic plan 2008–2013 in order to advance the global health 
agenda contained in the Eleventh General Programme of Work, 2006–2015; 
(2) to create an operational framework fo r WHO’s hosting of formal partnerships; 
(3) to apply the policy on WHO’s engagement with global health pa rtnerships and hosting 
arrangements, to the extent possible and in c onsultation with the rele vant partnerships, to 
current hosting arrangements with a view to ensuring their compliance with the principles 
embodied in the policy; 
(4) to submit to the Executive Board any proposal s for WHO to host formal partnerships for 
its review and decision; 
(5) to report on progress in implementing this resolution to the Sixty-fifth World Health 
Assembly through the Executive Board at its 129th session, the various actions taken by the Secretariat in relation to partnerships in  implementing the policy on partnerships. 
ANNEX 
POLICY ON WHO ENGAGEMENT WITH GLOBAL HEALTH  
PARTNERSHIPS AND HOSTING ARRANGEMENTS 
1. This document presents WHO’s policy that pr ovides a framework to guide WHO’s assessment 
of, and decision concerning, potential engagement in different types of health partnerships; it also 
provides specific parameters to be applied in cases where WHO agrees to host a formal partnership.  
2. The set of criteria noted below aims to guide  WHO’s decision making about when and how to 
engage in partnerships, and how to develop, revise or terminate that engagement. WHO favours, as a 
general principle, mechanisms within WHO that  facilitate collaboration without involving separate 
governance structures. 
3. The number of global health pa rtnerships, initiatives and othe r forms of collaboration has 
increased steadily over the past decade. The term “p artnerships” is being used generically to include 
various organizational structures, relationships and arrangements w ithin and external to WHO for 
furthering collaboration in order to achieve bett er health outcomes. These range from legally 
incorporated entities with their own governance to simpler collaborations with varied stakeholders. 
Diverse terms such as “partnership”, “alliance”, “network”, “programme”, “project collaboration”, 
“joint campaigns,” and “task force” may be used in  the title of these partners hips, although this list 
does not represent a typology. 
4. Examples of different partnerships include le gally incorporated entities external to WHO 
(e.g., Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis a nd Malaria, the GAVI Alliance, the Medicines for WHA63.10 
 
 
  
 
 
3 Malaria Venture) and unincorporat ed partnerships within WHO with their own governance (e.g., Stop 
TB Partnership, Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and Child Health , Roll-Back Malaria Partnership, 
UNITAID, the Global Health Workforce Allia nce, and the Health Metrics Network). 
5. As part of its core functions, WHO manages sever al collaborative efforts that are fully under its 
managerial control and accountability and for whic h there are no separate governance arrangements, 
and are designed to provide a means to collaborat e with multiple stakeholders. Examples include 
networks, programmes, task forces and project collaborations such as the Global Outbreak and 
Response Network, Global Noncommunicable Disease  Network, Guinea Worm Eradication Program, 
Meningitis Vaccine Project, Global Polio Eradicati on Initiative, and the Global Task Force on Cholera 
Control. 
Definition 
6. For the purposes of this policy, the term “formal pa rtnerships” refers to those partnerships with 
or without a separate legal personality but with a governance structure (for example, a board or steering committee) that takes decisions on direc tion, workplans and budgets. WHO currently serves 
as the host organization for several formal partne rships which have not been established as legal 
entities. WHO’s decision-making process for engaging in  partnerships, outlined below, applies in all 
cases whether or not the partnership is external to the Organization. 
Criteria for WHO’s engageme nt in a partnership 
7. In all situations in which the Secretariat identifi es a need for, or is asked to participate in, a 
partnership it will use a decision tr ee (see Appendix) based on the criteria below to review such 
requests and identify alternatives as necessary. This  process applies to all forms of partnership 
regardless of whether WHO is hosting it, or those not hosted by WHO in which WHO seeks, or is 
asked, to serve as a partner at a technical level. 
8. The following criteria will be used to assess futu re partnerships and w ill guide the relationship 
with the existing formal partnerships. 
(a) The partnership demonstrates a clear added value for public health  in terms of 
mobilizing partners, knowledge and resources, an d creating synergy, in  order to achieve a 
public-health goal that would otherwi se not be met to the same extent. 
(b) The partnership has a clear goal that con cerns a priority area of work for WHO 
reflected in WHO’s strategic objectives, and fo r which realistic time frames are provided. 
Participation would represent an extension of WHO’s core functions, policies, and relative 
strengths to other organizati ons, and would reinforce the qua lity and integrity of WHO’s 
programmes and work. 
(c) Partnerships are guided by the technical norms and standards established by WHO. 
(d) The partnership supports national development objectives. In cases where a 
partnership is active at country level and seek s to help to build capacity in-country, WHO’s 
engagement would help to harmonize efforts a nd thus reduce the overall management burden on 
countries. WHA63.10 
 
 
  
 
 
4 (e) The partnership ensures appropriate and ad equate participation of stakeholders. 
The agreed goals of the partnership shall be ensured through the active participation of all 
relevant stakeholders (including , as relevant, beneficiaries, civ il society and the private sector) 
and the respect of their individual mandates. Partnerships may benefit from the contribution of 
organizations and agencies outside the tr aditional public-health sector as relevant. 
(f) The roles of partners are clear. In order for WHO to participate in a partnership, the 
latter must clearly articulate the strengths of the partners, avoid duplication of WHO’s and partners’ activities, and the intr oduction of parallel systems. 
(g) Transaction costs related to a partnership must be evaluated, along with the 
potential benefits and risks.  Expected additional workloads for WHO (at all levels) shall be 
assessed and quantified. 
(h) Pursuit of the public-health goal takes precedence over the special interests of 
participants. Risks and responsibilities arising from public –private partnerships need to be 
identified and managed through development and implementation of safeguards that incorporate 
considerations of conflicts of interest. The pa rtnership shall have mechanisms to identify and 
manage conflicts of interest. Whenever comme rcial, for-profit companies are considered as 
potential partners, potential conflicts of interest sh all be taken into consideration as part of the 
design and structure of the partnership. 
(i) The structure of the partnership corr esponds to the proposed functions. The design 
of the structure of the partnership should corres pond to its function. For example, those with a 
significant financing element may require a more formal governance structure, with clear accountability for funding decisions. Those whose ro le is primarily a coordinating one could 
most effectively operate without a formal govern ance structure. Task-focused networks can be 
highly effective and efficient in achieving partne rship goals with maximum flexibility, and can 
limit the transaction costs often associated with  formal structures and governance mechanisms. 
(j) The partnership has an independent extern al evaluation and/or self-monitoring 
mechanism. The time frame, purpose, objectives, structure and functioning of a partnership 
shall be regularly reviewed and modified as appropriate. Criteria for modifying or ending a 
partnership shall be clearly presented, along with consideration for transition plans. 
Hosting arrangements  
9. In some cases, WHO agrees to host a formal pa rtnership without a separate legal personality. 
Hosting should be considered an exceptional arrangement  that must be in the overwhelming interest of 
all parties. 
10. For formal partnerships hosted by WHO, overarc hing considerations include ensuring that the 
overall mandate of the partnershi p and its hosting are consistent with WHO’s constitutional mandate 
and principles and do not place additional burdens on  the Organization, that it minimizes transaction 
costs to WHO, adds value to WHO’s work, and adheres to WHO’s accountability framework. 
11. The decision for WHO to serve as the hos t will depend first and foremost on WHO’s 
participation in the partnership as a strategic and t echnical partner. Most importantly, WHO must be a 
member of, and fully participate in, the steering body of the partnership. The partnership must also WHA63.10 
 
 
  
 
 
5 recognize, be in harmony with, and complement  WHO’s mandate and core functions, without 
duplicating or competing with them. 
12. WHO will ensure that its hosting of the partners hip and provision of its secretariat is congruent 
with WHO’s accountability framework1 and operational platform (coveri ng political, legal, financial, 
communication and administrative activities) and protects WHO’s integrity and reputation. The 
consideration and implementati on of hosting arrangements will be in accordance with WHO’s 
Constitution, Financial Regulations  and Financial Rules, Staff Re gulations and Staff Rules, and 
administrative and other relevant rules (“WHO’s ru les”). When WHO acts as the host, the operations 
of the partnership’s secretariat must, in all respects,  be administered in accordance with WHO’s rules. 
13. The hosting of a partnership by WHO goes beyond the simple provision of administrative 
services. The secretariat of a hosted partnership is part of WHO’s Secretariat and, as such, shares the legal identity and status of the Organization. In pa rticular, the staff of the partnership will, as staff 
members of WHO, enjoy the appli cable privileges and immunities for the protection of their functions. 
To this end, it is essential that the function of the secretariat be, and be seen as, part of the functions of 
WHO. This consideration is particularly rele vant for Switzerland, the host country of WHO’s 
headquarters, which has granted privileges, immun ities and facilities to the Organization and its staff 
for the performance of its constitutional mandate. In order to comply with th e host agreement between 
WHO and the Swiss Federal Council, the functions of the partnership secretariat must be part of the 
overall functions of WHO and may not be seen as separate from them. The Director-General will 
consult with the Swiss authorities when cons idering the hosting of formal partnerships. 
14. The Director-General shall submit to the Ex ecutive Board any proposals for WHO to host 
formal partnerships for its review and decision. 
Human resources 
15. Although the organizational structure and specific duties of the partnership secretariat are 
normally determined by the steering body of the partne rship, the secretariat staff are selected, managed 
and evaluated in accordance with WH O’s rules. The staff members of the partnership secretariat will 
be recruited solely for service with the partnership secretariat. 
16. As regards the head of a partnership secretariat,  he or she will be appointed by the DirectorGeneral in compliance with WHO’s Staff Regulati ons, Staff Rules and selection procedures and in 
consultation with the partnership’s steering body. Similarly, the performance of the head of the 
partnership secretariat will be assessed under W HO’s Performance Management and Development 
System, with an opportunity to receive feedback from the partnership’s steering body. 
Programme and financial management 
17. Formal partnerships, where WHO’s role is not exclusive in respect of governance, strategic and 
operational planning, will be outside the progra mme budget. This approach differentiates formal 
partnerships from WHO programmes. Separate accounts shall be esta blished for each partnership so 
                                                      
1 With particular reference to Article 37 of WHO’s Constitution which reads: “In the performance of their duties the 
Director-General and the staff shall not seek or receive inst ructions from any government or from any authority external to 
the Organization. They shall refrain from any action which might  reflect on their position as international officers. Each 
Member of the Organization on its part undertakes to respect th e exclusively international character of the Director-General 
and the staff and not to seek to influence them.” WHA63.10 
 
 
  
 
 
6 that relevant income and expenditure is recorded  and reported upon in a manner separate from WHO’s 
accounts. WHO shall invest any available balances of  cash or cash equivalents in accordance with its 
own regulations for the use of the partnership. A lthough these partnerships are outside the programme 
budget, their work must be synergistic w ith WHO’s respective strategic objectives. 
18. Regardless of programme budget status, all paym ents from the respective partnership accounts 
must be in accordance with WHO’s Financial Regul ations and Financial Rules in order to enable 
appropriate monitoring of the financial accountability of grantees and other recipients and of progress 
towards programme objectives. 
19. As regards financial management for formal partnerships outside the programme budget, the 
partnership secretariat will need to prepare separate  financial statements of income and expenditure, 
certified by the Office of the Chief Accountant of WHO, which will be provided to the partnership’s 
board on an annual basis. The statements will nor mally require a separate audit opinion from WHO’s 
External Auditor. All partnerships are in addition subject to internal audit in accordance with WHO’s 
Financial Regulations, Financial Rules and practices. Before the selection of a new head of a 
partnership secretariat, the Director-General may request an internal audit of the partnership. 
20. As an exception to the above, a small number of formal partnerships ex ists in which WHO’s 
role in respect of governance is not exclusive, but where the partnerships concerned contribute directly 
and fully to the achievement of the Organization-wide  expected results and indicators as set out in the 
Programme budget. The work of these entities is ex clusive to and follow strictly WHO’s results 
hierarchy. These partnerships are included w ithin the programme budget under the budget segment 
“Special programmes and collaborative arrangement s”. Most notable in this small group are longestablished research programmes whose activities ha ve been embedded in WHO’s work for many 
years.1 
21. Where WHO programmes provide direct contribu tions to supporting a hosted partnership, these 
costs shall be included in the WHO programme budget’s relevant expected results, budget and 
workplans. 
Resource mobilization and cost recovery 
22. Each hosted partnership shall be responsible fo r mobilizing adequate funds for its effective 
operation, including the costs of its secretariat and all related activities provided for in its budget and 
workplan. The obligation of WHO to implement any particular aspect of the partnership’s workplan 
will be conditional on WHO having received all n ecessary funding. Resource mobilization by hosted 
partnerships shall be closely coordinated with W HO, and those partnerships shall be required to 
indemnify the Organization for any financial risk s and liabilities incurred by the latter in the 
performance of its hosting functions. Fundraising by a WHO-hosted partnership from the commercial 
private sector shall be subject to WHO’s guidelin es on interaction with commercial enterprises. 
23. Unless otherwise stated in the hosting a rrangement, WHO shall be reimbursed for its 
programme support costs as determined by the Hea lth Assembly and/or WHO’s internal policy. 
Hosted partnerships can impose heavy workloads on different parts of the Organization, including at 
regional and country levels. WHO w ill seek to be reimbursed for all administrative and technical 
                                                      
1 UNICEF/UNDP/World Bank/WHO Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases and 
UNDP/UNFPA/WHO/World Bank Special Programme of Resear ch, Development and Resear ch Training in Human 
Reproduction. WHA63.10 
 
 
  
 
 
7 support costs incurred in providing hosting functions  for partnerships and implementing or supporting 
their activities. Similarly, partnerships that may have human resource implications for WHO at the 
regional and country levels shall be  required to meet the related cost s. Hosting arrangements will also 
require hosted partnerships to indemnify WHO for costs, expenses and claims incurred as a result of 
activities carried out by the partnership secretariat. 
Communications 
24. In order to protect the integrity of the partne rship and of WHO, the partnership secretariat will 
follow WHO’s guidelines and administrative procedur es for internal and external communications 
(including media products, publications, technical  reports and advocacy material). Official 
communications by the partnership secretariat with  Member States, WHO offices and staff will follow 
WHO’s normal channels. 
Evaluation and “sunset clauses” 
25. WHO’s arrangements with all its hosted partners hips will contain an “evaluation and sunset 
clause”, whereby an assessment will be carried out before the expiration of the hosting arrangement 
based on the past performance of the partnership, its  relationship with WHO, the continued demand or 
emerging alternatives to fostering collaboration,  and future expectations. Working with the 
partnerships, WHO will design a monitoring and evaluation framework for such an assessment. 
26. Following the assessment, WHO and the partnershi p will discuss the results with a view to 
choosing one of four possible approaches, namely: (1) continuing the current arrangement for a new 
specified period; (2) making recommendations for cha nges to the partnership structure and/or purpose 
and for revision of WHO’s hosting arrangement; (3) in tegrating the partnership into WHO with clear 
specifications for ensuring broad and inclusive co llaboration with partners; or (4) separating the 
partnership from WHO. 
27. The application and impact of this policy will be periodically reviewed and updated. 
28. The Director-General will prepare guidelines and operating procedures for the implementation 
of this policy by the Secretariat. WHA63.10 
 
 
  
=     =     = 
 
8 APPENDIX 
Decision tree for evaluating  the criteria for WHO engagement  
 
Based on the evaluation of each case, the Director-General decides on:
 - engaging in or establishing new global health partnerships or collaborations  - defining the optimal means of collaboration
 - suggestions for revisions to or separation of existing partnerships
 - consulting with the Executive Board, if WHO is requested to host a    partnership (inclusive of its secretariat).Engage with partners to 
strengthen existing 
collaboration
Proposed partnership addresses WHO 
priority area reflected in Medium-term 
strategic plan; extension of WHO's core 
functions, policies, and relative strengths 
to other organizationsProposed partnership  
demonstrates clear added value 
for public health
Where partnership is active at country 
level, it  is aligned w ith country priorities 
and principles of best practice, builds 
national capacity, and supports national 
development objectives
Agreed goals of proposed partnership 
ensured through participation of 
stakeholders and respect  of their 
respective mandatesYes
YesNo
Engage with partners to 
modify strategic 
approachesNo
Engage with partners to 
ensure full participation of 
key stakeholders and 
respect of their mandatesYesNo
Roles and comparative strengths of 
partners clearly identified and agreed, 
including harmony w ith WHO's 
mandate and functionsYes
Engage with partners to 
clarify roles and 
responsibilitiesNoNo
Potential conflicts of interest 
can be identified and addressedYes
No
Proposed structure 
appropriately reflects main 
functions of partnershipYes
Engage with partners to 
modify proposed 
structure and governanceNo
Submit partnership  proposal for review 
and decision YesDisengage 
from 
partnership 
development 
process
NoNoNo1
2
4
5
6
9Request for 
clarification
NoYes
WHO technical norms and 
standards are used by the 
partnership. Engage with partners to 
ensure WHO norms and 
standards used. No No
Transaction costs, risks and 
benefits assessed and 
quantifiedNo
Yes3
87
Eighth plenary meeting, 21 May 2010 
A63/VR/8 