The Twelfth World Health Assembly ADOPTS the following amendments to its Rules of Procedure: 2 Rule 33 The main committees of the Health Assembly [shall establish at each session] shall be: (a) the Committee on Programme and Budget; (b) the Committee on Administration, Finance and Legal Matters. In addition to these two main committees, the Health Assembly may establish such other main committees as it may consider necessary, [and] The Health Assembly, after consideration of the recommendations of the Board and the General Committee, shall allocate to such main committees appropriate items on the agenda. The chairmen of these main committees shall be elected by the Health Assembly after consideration of the report of the Committee on Nominations. Rule 62 When an amendment toa proposal is moved, the amendment shall be voted on first. When two or more amendments toa proposal are moved, the Health Assembly shall first vote on the amendment deemed by the President tobe furthest removed in substance from the original proposal, and then on the amendment next removed therefrom, and so on, until all the amendments have been put to the vote. If one or more amendments are adopted, the amended proposal shall then be voted upon. If an amendment toa proposal has been accepted by the original proposer, such an amendment shall be deemed bean integral part of the original proposal and no separate vote shall be required thereon. Amotion is considered an amendment toa proposal if it merely adds to, deletes from or revises part of that proposal. Amotion which constitutes a substitution fora proposal shall be considered as a proposal. Rule 65 When a proposal has been adopted or rejected, it may not be reconsidered at the same session unless the Health Assembly, by a two-thirds majority of the Members present and voting, so decides. Permission to speak amotion to reconsider shall be accorded only to two speakers opposing the motion, after which it shall immediately be put toa vote. The correction of a clerical or arithmetical error in any document concerning a proposal which has already been adopted shall not be considered as requiring the reopening of the debate on such proposal by a two-thirds majority vote. Eleventh plenary meeting, 28 May 1959 (section 1 of the fourth report of the Committee on Administration, Finance and Legal Matters)