The Twelfth World Health Assembly, Having studied the report1 of the Director-General to the twenty-third session of the Executive Board and the report2 submitted to the present session of the Health Assembly; Considering resolution EB23.R52 adopted by the Executive Board at its twenty-third session; Considering that the present position regarding headquarters accommodation is not conducive to an efficient functioning of headquarters services, and therefore requires an urgent solution; Noting from the technical study 1 made by the United Nations on the possibilities of extending the Palais des Nations that none of the several possible extensions could be considered as satisfactory; Noting the offers made by the authorities of the Swiss Confederation and of the Republic and Canton of Geneva, subject to parliamentary approval, to provide a building site and to assist in the financing of anew building, by granting loans toa total of Sw. fr. 30 000 000 (US $6 976 744); and Noting that the World Health Organization has made an investment in the Palais des Nations which includes a grant by the Swiss authorities intended to facilitate WHO's accommodation in Geneva, 1. DECIDES that there is a need fora headquarters building for WHO; 2. DECIDES that plans and specifications together with more precise cost estimates within a maximum limit of Sw. fr. 40 000 000 (US $9 302 326) shall be laid before the Thirteenth World Health Assembly; 3. ACCEPTS the generous offer of the Government of the Swiss Confederation and the Government of the Republic and Canton of Geneva and expresses its warmest thanks for their generous offers; 4. DECIDES to establish a special account entitled " Headquarters Building Fund " to which all sums appropriated, borrowed or contributed are tobe credited and against which all costs for planning, construction and equipping of the headquarters building are tobe charged, the account tobe maintained until the completion of the building project and, notwithstanding the provisions of the Financial Regulations, the balance of the account being carried forward from year to year; 5. AGREES that the choice of a building plan and an architect should be made through international competition, which competition shall be governed by rules tobe established by the Executive Board, including the value of the prizes tobe offered; 6. DELEGATES to the Executive Board, subject to the provisions of paragraph 2, the following powers to acton behalf of the Health Assembly with regard to the development of plans, specifications and estimates for the construction of the headquarters building: (a) to approve the building site; (b) to approve the contractual arrangements with the authorities of the Swiss Confederation and of the Canton of Geneva for the credits offered; (c) to approve the contract with the architect tobe selected as referred to in paragraph 5 above; 7. AUTHORIZES the Executive Board to delegate such of the above powers as it may find necessary to an ad hoc committee of the Board, which committee could be convened between sessions of the Board at such time as it might be considered necessary, and on the call of the Director-General; 8. AUTHORIZES the Executive Board to accept, for the headquarters building, on behalf of the World Health Assembly, inconformity with Article 57 of the Constitution, voluntary contributions, gifts and bequests from governments, foundations, individuals and others; 9. REQUESTS the Executive Board and the Director-General to study the question of a suitable reimbursement to the World Health Organization by the United Nations, to bring the matter to the attention of the United Nations, and to submit a report to the next Health Assembly; and 10. REQUESTS the Executive Board and the Director-General to submit a full report to the Thirteenth World Health Assembly on the status of the plans for headquarters accommodation, and on the financing of the expenditure over the years. Ninth plenary meeting, 22 May 1959 (section 2 of the second report of the Committee on Administration, Finance and Legal Matters)