The Fourteenth World Health Assembly DECIDES to amend Rules 23, 24, 30 and 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the Health Assembly, the amended texts to read as follows: Rule 23 The Health Assembly shall elect a Committee on Nominations consisting of twenty-four delegates of as many Members. At the beginning of each regular session the President shall submit to the Health Assembly alist consisting of twenty-four Members to comprise a Committee on Nominations. Any Member may propose additions to such list. On the basis of such list, as amended by any additions proposed, a vote shall be taken inaccordance with the provisions of those Rules dealing with elections. Rule 24 The Committee on Nominations, having regard to an equitable geographic distribution and to experience and personal competence, shall propose (a) to the Health Assembly from among the delegates nominations for the offices of the President and three vice-presidents of the Health Assembly, for the offices of chairman of each of the main committees, and for the members of the General Committee tobe elected underRule 30, and (b) to each of the main committees, setup underRule 33, nominations from among the delegates for the offices of vice-chairman and rapporteur. The proposals of the Committee on Nominations shall be forthwith communicated to the Health Assembly or to the main committees respectively. Rule 30 The General Committee of the Health Assembly shall consist of the President and vice-presidents of the Health Assembly, the chairmen of the main committees of the Health Assembly established underRule 33 and that number of delegates tobe elected by the Health Assembly after consideration of the report of the Committee on Nominations as shall provide a total of twenty members of the General Committee, provided that no delegation may have more than one representative on the Committee. The President of the Health Assembly shall convene, and preside over, meetings of the General Committee. Each member of the General Committee maybe accompanied by not more than one other member of his delegation. The President ora vice-president may designate a member of his delegation as his substitute in his capacity as member during a meeting or any part thereof. The chairman of amain committee shall, in the case of absence, designate the vice-chairman of the committee as his substitute, provided that the vice-chairman shall not have the right to vote if he is of the same delegation as another member of the General Committee. Each of the elected delegates shall be entitled to designate another member of his delegation to act as his substitute in the event of his absence from any meeting of the General Committee. Meetings of the General Committee shall beheld in private unless it decides otherwise. Rule 109 Applications made by a State for admission to membership or applications made by a Member or other authority having the responsibility for the international relations of a territory or group of territories on behalf of such territory or group of territories for admission to associate membership in the Organization shall, in pursuance of Articles 6 and 8 of the Constitution, be addressed to the Director-General and shall be transmitted immediately by him to Members. Any such application shall be placed on the agenda of the next session of the Health Assembly provided the application reaches the Director-General at least thirty days before the opening of such session. An application for membership made by a State formerly an Associate Member maybe received at any time by the Health Assembly. Handb. Res., 5th d., 4..4.5 Twelfth plenary meeting, 23 February 1961 (section 3 of the fifth report of the Committee on Administration, Finance and Legal Matters)