WHA18.5  Additional  Regulations  of 12 May  1965  amending  the  International  Sanitary  Regulations,  in particular  with  respect  to Disinsecting  of Ships  and  Aircraft,  and  Appendices  3 and  4 (Forms  of the 
International  Certificates  of Vaccination  or Revaccination  against  Yellow  Fever  and  against  Smallpox) 
The Eighteenth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Considering  the  need  for  the  amendment  of certain  of the  provisions  of the  International  Sanitary 
Regulations;  and 
Having  regard  to Articles  2{k),  21(a)  and  22 of the  Constitution  of the  World  Health  Organization, 
ADOPTS,  this  12 May  1965,  the following  Additional  Regulations  : 
ARTICLE  1 
In the  following  articles  and  in Appendices  3 and  4 of the  International  Sanitary  Regulations,  there 
shall  be made  the amendments  listed  below  : 
Article  73 
(The  English  text  remains  unchanged.) 
Article  96 
In paragraph  1, after  the words  " shall  ascertain  the  state  of health  on board,  and  ", insert  the words  : 
", except  when  a health  administration  does  not  require  it,". 
In paragraph  2, delete  the word  " further  ". 
Article  97 
In paragraph  2, delete  the word  " further  ". 
Article  102  (deleted  by the Additional  Regulations  of 1956) 
Insert  as a new  Article  102  the following  : 
1. Every  ship  or aircraft  leaving  a local  area  where  transmission  of malaria  or other  mosquito-borne 
disease  is occurring,  or where  insecticide-resistant  mosquito  vectors  of disease  are present,  shall  be disinsected 
under  the  control  of the  health  authority  as near  as possible  to the  time  of its departure  but  in sufficient 
time  to avoid  delaying  such  departure. 
2. On  arrival  in an area  where  malaria  or other  mosquito-borne  disease  could  develop  from  imported 
vectors,  the  ship  or aircraft  mentioned  in paragraph  1 of this  Article  may  be disinsected  if the  health 
authority  is not  satisfied  with  the  disinsection  carried  out  in accordance  with  paragraph  1 of this  Article 
or it finds  live  mosquitos  on board. 
3. The  States  concerned  may  accept  the  disinsection  in flight  of the  parts  of the aircraft  which  can  be so 
disinsected. 
Article  105 
In paragraph  l(j),  delete  the words  " except  paragraph  2 of Article  XVII  ". 
Appendix  3: International  Certificate  of Vaccination  or Revaccination  against  Yellow  Fever  1 
After  the words  " The  validity  of this  certificate  shall  extend  for  a period  of ", delete  the  words  " six 
years  " and  insert  the words  " ten years  ". 
After  the  words  " within  such  period  of ", delete  the  words  " six years  " and  insert  the  words  " ten 
years  ". 
After  the words  " La validité  de ce certificat  couvre  une  période  de ", delete  the words  " six ans  " and 
insert  the words  " dix ans  ". 
After  the  words  " au cours  de cette  période  de ", delete  the  words  " six ans  " and  insert  the  words 
" dix  ans  ". 
Appendix  4: International  Certificate  of Vaccination  or Revaccination  against  Smallpox 
After  the words  " has  on the date  indicated  been  vaccinated  or revaccinated  against  smallpox  ", insert 
the words  " with  a freeze-dried  or liquid  vaccine  certified  to fulfil  the recommended  requirements  of the 
World  Health  Organization  ". 
After  the words  " a été vacciné(e)  ou revacciné(e)  contre  la variole  à la date  indiquée  ", insert  the words 
" ci-dessous,  avec  un vaccin  lyophilisé  ou liquide  certifié  conforme  aux  normes  recommandées  par  l'Organisation  mondiale  de la Santé  ". 
Delete  the " box  " in this  Appendix  and  replace  by : 
Date Show  by " x " whether: 
Indiquer  par « x » 
s'il s'agit  de : Signature  and 
professional  status 
of vaccinator 
Signature  et 
titre du 
vaccinateur Origin  and 
batch  No. 
of vaccine 
Origine  du 
vaccin  et 
numéro  du lot Approved  stamp 
Cachet  d'authentification 
la Primary  vaccination^ 
performed  ( 
Primovaccination  [ 
effectuée  ; la lb 
lb Read  as successful  \ 
Prise  / 
Unsuccessful  \ 
Pas de prise  / la lb 
2 
Revaccination 2 3 
3 
Revaccination 2 3 
ARTICLE  II 
1. The  period  of validity  of an international  certificate  of vaccination  or revaccination  against  yellow  fever 
issued  before  the  entry-into-force  of these  Additional  Regulations  is hereby  extended  from  six years  to 
ten years. 
2. Upon  the entry-into-force  of these  Additional  Regulations,  the form  of certificate  of vaccination  or revaccination  against  smallpox  set forth  in Appendix  4 of the International  Sanitary  Regulations  may  continue 
to be issued  until  the  first  day  of January  1967.  A certificate  of vaccination  so issued  shall  thereafter 
continue  to be valid  for the period  for which  it was  previously  valid. 
ARTICLE  HI 
The period  provided  in execution  of Article  22 of the  Constitution  of the  Organization  for  rejection 
or reservation  shall  be three  months  from  the date  of the notification  by the Director-General  of the adoption 
of these  Additional  Regulations  by the World  Health  Assembly. 
ARTICLE  IV 
These  Additional  Regulations  shall  come  into  force  on the first  day  of January  1966. 
ARTICLE  V 
The following  final  provisions  of the International  Sanitary  Regulations  shall  apply  to these  Additional 
Regulations  : paragraph  3 of Article  106,  paragraphs  1 and  2 and  the  first  sentence  of paragraph  5 of 107, 
108 and  paragraph  2 of 109,  substituting  the  date  mentioned  in Article  IV of these  Additional  Regulations 
for that  mentioned  therein,  110  to 113  inclusive. 
IN FAITH  WHEREOF  we have  set our  hands  at Geneva  this  twelfth  day  of May  1965. 
V. V.  OLGUÍN 
President  of the  Eighteenth  World  Health  Assembly 
M. G.  CANDAU 
Director-General  of the  World  Health  Organization 
Handb.  Res.,  7th ed.,  1.5.8.5 Eighth  plenary  meeting,  12  May  1965  (Committee  on 
Programme  and  Budget,  first  report) 
