 
 
 
SIXTY-FOURTH WORLD HEA LTH ASSEMBLY WHA64.11 
Agenda item 13.12 24 May 2011 
Preparations for the High-level Meeting of the 
United Nations General Assembly on the  
prevention and control of noncommunicable 
diseases, following on the Moscow Conference1 
 
The Sixty-fourth World Health Assembly, 
Having considered the report on WHO’s role in  the preparation, implementation and follow-up 
to the high-level meeting of the United Nations Ge neral Assembly on the prevention and control of 
noncommunicable diseases2 (high-level meeting); 
Deeply concerned that the global burden and threat of noncommunicable diseases continues to 
grow, in particular in developing  countries, and convinced that global action is necessary and urgent 
response is needed, including by effectively a ddressing the key risk factors for noncommunicable 
diseases; 
Reaffirming its commitment to the aim of the gl obal strategy for the prevention and control of 
noncommunicable diseases to reduce premature mo rtality and improve quality of life (resolution 
WHA53.17); 
Further recalling United Nations General Assemb ly resolution 64/265 in which the General 
Assembly decided to convene a high-level meeting of the General Assembly in September 2011, with 
the participation of Heads of State and G overnment, on the prevention and control of 
noncommunicable diseases, as well as resoluti on 65/238 on the scope, modalities, format and 
organization of the high-level meeting; 
Recognizing the leading role of the World H ealth Organization as the primary specialized 
agency for health, and reaffirming the leadership role of WHO in promoting global action against 
noncommunicable diseases; 
                                                      
1 First Global Ministerial Conference on Healthy Lifest yles and Noncommunicable Disease Control (Moscow, 
Russian Federation, 28–29 April 2011). 
2 Resolution 64/265 – Prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. WHA64.11   
 
 
  
 
 
2 Noting with appreciation the first WHO Global status report on noncommunicable diseases  
launched on 27 April 2011, which may serve as an i nput into the preparatory process for the high-level 
meeting; 
Noting the outcomes of the regional consultations  which were held by WHO in collaboration 
with Member States, with the support of relevant  United Nations agencies and entities, which will 
serve to provide inputs to the preparations for the hi gh-level meeting, as well as to the meeting itself; 
Welcoming the outcome of the First Global Mi nisterial Conference on Healthy Lifestyles and 
Noncommunicable Disease Control, which was orga nized by the Russian Federation and WHO from 
28 to 29 April 2011 in Moscow, 
1. ENDORSES the Moscow Declaration, annexed to  the present resolution, including as a key 
input for the preparations leading to the High-level Meeting; 
2. URGES Member States:1 
(1) to continue to support the preparations at national, regional and in ternational levels for 
the high-level meeting, including, where feas ible and relevant, situation analysis of 
noncommunicable diseases and their risk factors,  as well as an assessment of national capacity 
and health system response to address noncommunicable diseases; 
(2) to be represented at the level of Heads of  State and Government at the high-level meeting 
and to call for action through a concise action-oriented outcome document; 
(3) to consider, as appropriate and where releva nt, including in their national delegations to 
the high-level meeting parliamentarians, re presentatives of civil society, including 
nongovernmental organizations, academia and netw orks working on the control and prevention 
of noncommunicable diseases; 
3. REQUESTS the Director-General: 
(1) to continue exercising the leading role of WHO as the primary specialized agency for 
health working together in a coordinated way w ith the United Nations, its specialized agencies, 
funds and programmes, and other relevant inte rgovernmental organizations and international 
financial institutions, in suppor ting Member States, including: 
(i) in undertaking concerted action and a c oordinated response in order to promptly 
and appropriately address the challenges posed by noncommunicable diseases, including 
further building on available situation analyses on noncommunicable diseases and risk 
factors; and  
(ii) in highlighting the social and economic impact of noncommunicable diseases, including financial challenges, in pa rticular in developing countries; 
(2) to take into account the outcomes from th e Moscow Conference into the preparations for 
the high-level meeting; 
                                                     
 
1 And, where applicable , regional economic inte gration organizations.   WHA64.11 
 
 
  
 
 
  3  (3) to ensure adequate financial and human resources within the WHO to prepare for the 
high-level meeting and to respond swiftly to its recommendations; 
(4) to report to the Sixty-fifth World Health Assembly, through the Executive Board, on the 
outcomes of the first Global Ministerial Conference on Healthy Lifestyles and 
Noncommunicable Disease Control and the high-leve l meeting, and to develop, together with 
relevant United Nations agencies and entities, an  implementation and follow-up plan for the 
outcomes, including its financial implications, for submission to the Sixty-sixth World Health Assembly, through the Executive Board. 
   WHA64.11 
 
 
  
 
 
  5  ANNEX 
First Global Ministerial Conference  
on Healthy Lifestyles and Nonc ommunicable Disease Control  
Moscow, 28–29 April 2011 
 
MOSCOW DECLARATION  
 
PREAMBLE 
 
We, the participants in the First Global Mini sterial Conference on Healthy Lifestyles and 
Noncommunicable Disease (NCDs) Control, gathered in Moscow on 28–29 April 2011. 
I. 
Express  appreciation for the leading role of the World Health Organization and the Government of the 
Russian Federation in the preparation and holding of the Ministerial Conference. 
II. 
Recognize that the right  of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standards of physical 
and mental health cannot be achieved without greater  measures at global and national levels to prevent 
and control NCDs. 
III. 
Acknowledge  the existence of significant inequities in the burden of NCDs and in access to NCD 
prevention and control, both between countries, as well as within countries. 
IV. 
Note that policies that address the behavioural, social, economic and environmental  factors associated 
with NCDs should be rapidly and fu lly implemented to ensure the mo st effective res ponses to these 
diseases, while increasing the quality of life and health equity. WHA64.11  Annex 
 
 
  
 
 
6 V. 
Emphasize that prevention and control of NCDs requires l eadership at all levels, and a wide range of 
multi-level, multi-sectoral measures aimed at the fu ll spectrum of NCD determinants (from individuallevel to structural) to create the necessary cond itions for leading healthy lives. This includes 
promoting and supporting healthy lifestyles and choices,  relevant legislation and policies; preventing 
and detecting disease at the earliest possible mome nt to minimize suffering and reduce costs; and 
providing patients with the best possible integrated health care throughout the life cycle including empowerment, rehabilita tion and palliation. 
VI. 
Recognize  that a paradigm shift is imperative in dealing with NCD challenges, as NCDs are caused not 
only by biomedical factors, but also caused or st rongly influenced by behavioural, environmental, 
social and economic factors. 
VII. 
Affirm our commitment to addressing the challenges posed by NCDs, including, as appropriate, 
strengthened and reoriented policies and progra mmes that emphasize multi-sectoral action on the 
behavioural, environmental, social and economic factors. 
VIII. 
Express our belief  that NCDs should be considered in partne rships for health; that they should be 
integrated into health and other sectors’ pla nning and programming in a coordinated manner, 
particularly in low- and middle-income countries; that they should be part of the global research 
agenda and that the impact and sustainability of  approaches to prevent and control NCDs will be 
enhanced through health systems strengthening and st rategic coordination with existing global health 
programs. 
RATIONALE FOR ACTION 
1. NCDs, principally cardiovascular diseases, di abetes, cancers and chronic respiratory diseases, 
are the leading causes of preventable morbidity and disability, and currently cause over 60% of 
global deaths, 80% of which occur in developing countries. By 2030, NCDs are estimated to 
contribute to 75% of global deaths. 
2. In addition, other NCDs such as mental disord ers also significantly contribute to the global 
disease burden. 
3. NCDs have substantial negative impacts on human development and may impede progress 
towards the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
4. NCDs now impact significantly on all levels of health services, health care costs, and the health 
workforce, as well as national productivity in  both emerging and established economies. 
5. Worldwide, NCDs are important causes of premature death, striking hard among the most 
vulnerable and poorest populations. Globally they impact on the lives of billions of people and Annex  WHA64.11 
 
 
  
 
 
  7  can have devastating financial impacts that impove rish individuals and their families, especially 
in low- and middle-income countries. 
6. NCDs can affect women and men differently , hence prevention and control of NCDs should 
take gender into account. 
7. Many countries are now facing extraordinary challenges from the double burden of disease: 
communicable diseases and noncommunicable diseases.  This requires adapting health systems 
and health policies, and a shift from dise ase-centred to people-centred approaches and 
population health measures. Vertical initiatives are insufficient to meet complex population 
needs, so integrated solutions that engage  a range of disciplines and sectors are needed. 
Strengthening health systems in this way results  in improved capacity to respond to a range of 
diseases and conditions. 
8. Evidence-based and cost-effective interventions exist to prevent and control NCDs at global, 
regional, national and local levels. These in terventions could ha ve profound health,  social, and 
economic benefits throughout the world. 
9. Examples of  cost-effective interventions to reduce the risk of NCDs, which are affordable in 
low-income countries and could prevent millions  of premature deaths every year, include 
measures to control tobacco use, reduce salt in take and reduce the harmful use of alcohol. 
10. Particular attention should be paid  to the promotion of healthy diets  (low consumption of 
saturated fats, trans fats, salt and sugar, and hi gh consumption of fruits and vegetables) physical 
activity in all aspects of daily living. 
11. Effective NCD prevention and control require leadership and concerted “whole of government” 
action at all levels (national, sub-national and local) and across a number of sectors, such as 
health, education, energy, agriculture, sports, tr ansport and urban planni ng, environment, labour, 
industry and trade, finance and economic development. 
12. Effective NCD prevention and control require  the active and informed participation and 
leadership of individuals, families and communiti es, civil society organizations, private sector 
where appropriate, employers, health care pr oviders and the international community. 
COMMITMENT TO ACTION 
We, therefore, commit to act by: 
At the Whole of Government level: 
1. Developing multi-sectoral public policies that create equitable health promoting environments 
that enable individuals, families and commun ities to make healthy choices and lead healthy 
lives; 
2. Strengthening policy coherence to maximi ze positive and minimize negative impacts on NCD 
risk factors and the burden resulting from policies of other sectors; WHA64.11  Annex 
 
 
  
 
 
8 3. Giving priority to NCD prevention and contro l according to need, ensu ring complementarity 
with other health objectives and mainstreami ng multi-sectoral policies to strengthen the 
engagement of other sectors; 
4. Engaging civil society to harness its part icular capacities for NCD prevention and control; 
5. Engaging the private sector in order to st rengthen its contribution to NCD prevention and 
control according to international and national NCD priorities; 
6. Developing and strengthening the ability of hea lth systems to coordinate, implement, monitor 
and evaluate national and sub-nationa l strategies and programmes on NCDs; 
7. Implementing population-wi de health promotion and disease prevention strategies, 
complemented by individual interventions, acco rding to national priorities. These should be 
equitable and sustainable and take into account gender, cultural and community perspectives in 
order to reduce health inequities; 
8. Implementing cost-effective policies, such as fi scal policies, regulations and other measures to 
reduce common  risk factors such as tobacco use, unhea lthy diet, physical inactivity and the 
harmful use of alcohol; 
9. Accelerating implementation by States Parties of the provisions of the WHO Framework 
Convention on Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC) a nd encouraging other countries to ratify the 
Convention; 
10. Implementing effective policies for NCD preven tion and control at nati onal and global levels, 
including those relevant to achieving the goals of the 2008–2013 Action Plan for the Global 
Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases, the WHO Global 
Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol and the Global Strategy on Diet, Physical 
Activity and Health; 
11. Promoting recognition of the rising incide nce and burden of NCDs on national as well as 
international development agendas, and encour aging countries and international development 
partners to consider the level of priority accorded to NCDs. 
At Ministry of Health level: 
1. Strengthening health information systems to monitor the evolving burden of NCDs, their risk 
factors, their determinants and the impact and effectiveness of health promotion, prevention and 
control  policies and other interventions; 
2. According to national priorities, strengthening pub lic health systems at the country level to scale 
up evidence-based health promotion and NCD prevention strategies and actions; 
3. Integrating NCD-related services into primar y health care services through health systems 
strengthening, according to capacities and priorities; 
4. Promoting access to comprehensive and cost-effective prevention, treatment and care for 
integrated management of NCDs, including access to affordable, safe, effective and high quality 
medicines based on needs and resource assessments; Annex  WHA64.11 
 
 
  
 
 
  9  5. According to country-led prioritization, ensu ring the scaling-up of effective, evidence-based and 
cost-effective interventions that  demonstrate the potential to treat individuals with NCDs, 
protect those at high risk of developing  them and reduce risk across populations. 
6. Promoting, translating and disseminati ng research to identify the causes of NCDs,  effective 
approaches for NCD prevention and control, and st rategies appropriate to distinct cultural and 
health care settings. 
At the International level: 
1. Calling upon the World Health Organization, as th e lead UN specialized ag ency for health, and 
all other relevant UN system agencies, deve lopment banks, and othe r key international 
organizations to work together in a coordinated manner to address NCDs; 
2. Working through WHO in consultation with other multilateral organi zations, international 
nongovernmental organizations, the private sector and civil society stakeholders to strengthen 
normative guidance, pool technical expertise, coordinate policy to achieve the best possible results and capitalize on synergies among existing global health initiatives. 
3. Strengthening international support for the full and effective implementation of the WHO 
FCTC, the Action Plan for the Global Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases, the WHO Global Stra tegy to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, 
the Global Strategy on Diet, Physical Activity and Health and other relevant international 
strategies to address NCDs. 
4. Investigating all possible m eans to identify and mobilize the necessary financial, human and 
technical resources in ways that do not undermine other health objectives. 
5. Supporting the WHO in developing a compre hensive global monitoring framework on NCDs. 
6. Examining possible means to continue f acilitating the access of low- and middle-income 
countries to affordable, safe, effective and high qua lity medicines in this area consistent with the 
WHO Model Lists of Essential Medicines, based  on needs and resource assessments, including 
by implementing the WHO Global Strategy and Plan of Action on Public Health, Innovation and Intellectual Property. 
WAY FORWARD 
With a view to securing an ambitious and sustaina ble outcome, we commit to actively engaging with 
all relevant sectors of Government, on the basis of this Moscow Declaration, in the preparation of and 
the follow-up to the United Nations General As sembly High-level Meeting on the Prevention and 
Control of noncommunicable diseases in New York. 
Tenth plenary meeting, 24 May 2011 
A64/VR/10 
=     =     = 