The Third World Health Assembly, In view of the fundamental importance of the programme of publications of the Organization, considered not only as a statutory obligation inherited from previous international organizations, but also as an activity particularly favourable to the effectiveness and prestige of WHO ; Considering that the time has come, two years after the final establishment of the Organization, to proceed toa general examination of the results obtained and to determine the future direction of the programme of publications, 1. NOTES the results achieved uptill now, despite indisputable difficulties especially of a financial and material nature ; 2. APPROVES the programme of publications contained in the Proposed Programme and Budget Estimates for 1951 3 on the understanding that it will be amended inaccordance with the principles enunciated in the annex to this resolution ; 3. REQUESTS the Director-General (1) to bear in mind, subject to budgetary limitations, as concerns the development of the activities of the Organization in this field, the principles enunciated in the annex to this resolution from the dual viewpoint of the structure and frequency of the various publications, (2) to take all measures capable of ensuring the quality of the publications in the different languages employed, (3) to submit to the Executive Board and the Fourth World Health Assembly a special report on the measures adopted inapplication of the present resolution ; 4. REQUESTS the Executive Board to submit its observations and comments on this report to the Fourth World Health Assembly ; 5. DRAWS the attention of Member States to the importance of the strict application of Article 63 of the Constitution, and 6. RECOMMENDS that they adopt adequate measures in this connexion within the framework of their national health-administrations. Annex PRINCIPLES WHICH SHOULD GOVERN THE EXPANSION OF THE PROGRAMME OF PUBLICATIONS 1. The Bulletin of the World Health Organization is the fundamental publication of the Organization ; texts tobe included therein should consequently be chosen on the grounds of high technical or scientific quality combined with as wide an international appeal as possible. The Bulletin should include a bibliographical section, comprising not only references, but also abstracts of original documents. The Bulletin should appear monthly ; this rhythm of publication should be put into practice as soon as possible, in principle from 1952. 2. The International Digest of Health Legislation should comprise complete documentation of as recent a date as possible on the national health laws and regulations "... considered tobe of international importance " It should be issued not only bound, but also as separate sheets and fascicles enabling classification by subject and by State tobe carried out. According to their importance, the texts in the Digest should be either reproduced verbatim, indicated only by a reference, briefly abstracted or partially cited. In addition to the table of contents, the Digest should contain a classified index arranging the text according to subject. The Digest should appear every three months. 3. The Chronicle of the World Health Organization should keep to the role of publicity and general information for which it was originally intended. (Seventh report of the Committee on Programme adopted at seventh plenary meetting, 25 May 1950) [A3 / R / 127]