The Sixty-first World Health Assembly, Having considered the report on method of work of the Health Assembly 1. DECIDES to add to its Rules of Procedure of the World Health Assembly anew Rule 12bis, as follows: Rule 12bis At each session the provisional agenda and, subject to Rule 12, any proposed supplementary item, together with the report of the General Committee thereon, shall be submitted to the Health Assembly for its adoption as soon as possible after the opening of the session. 2. DECIDES to delete Rules 24 and 25 of the Rul es of Procedure of the World Health Assembly; 3. DECIDES to amend Rules 26, 31, 34, 36, 68, and 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the World Health Assembly as follows, on the understanding that the Rules of Procedure shall be renumbered as a consequence of the deletion of Rules 24 and 25: Rule 26 At each regular session, the Health Assembly shall elect a President and five vice-presidents, who shall hold office until their successors are elected. Rule 31 The General Committee of the Health Assembly shall consist of the President and vicepresidents of the Health Assembly, the chairmen of the main committees of the Health Assembly established underRule 34 and that number of delegates tobe elected by the Health Assembly as shall provide a total of twenty-five members of the General Committee, provided that no delegation may have more than one representative on the Committee. The President of the Health Assembly shall convene, and preside over, meeti ngs of the General Committee. [] 1 Document A61 / 30. WHA61.11 2 Rule 34 [] The chairmen of these main committees shall be elected by the Health Assembly. Rule 36 Each main committee shall elect two vice-chairmen anda rapporteur. Rule 68 If two or more proposals are moved, the Health Assembly shall, unless it decides otherwise, vote on the proposals in the order in which they have been circulated to all delegations, unless the result of a vote ona proposal makes unnecessary any other voting on the proposal or proposals still outstanding. Rule 92 Verbatim records of all plenary meetings and summary records of the meetings of the General Committee and of committees and sub-committees shall be made by the Secretariat. Unless otherwise expressly decided by the committee concerned, no record shall be made of the proceedings of the Committee on Credentials other than the report presen ted by the Committee to the Health Assembly. 4. DECIDES that the Health Assembly shall continue to follow its current practice concerning equitable geographical representation in the nomination of candidates for elected positions in the Health Assembly and its subsidiary bodies, with a view to such nominations being received by the Director-General no later than the opening of each session of the Health Assembly. 5. FURTHER DECIDES that the foregoing changes to its Rules of Procedure shall take effect from the closure of its Sixty-first session. Eighth plenary meeting, 24 May 2008 A61 / VR / 8 = = =