THIRTY-SEVENTH  WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA37.32 
Agenda item 22 17 May 1984 
ACTION PROGRAMME  ON ESSENTIAL  DRUGS AND VACCINES 
The Thirty-seventh  World Health Asembly, 
Recalling  previous  resolutions  of the Health Assembly  on this matter,  and in particular 
resolution  WHA35.27,  in which the main lines of the Action Programme  on Essential  Drugs for 
the coming years and the plan of action for 1982 and 1983 were endorsed,  subject  to the Health 
Assembly's  deliberations; 
............".•  • ：-.  •, •  • • «••',  •'"；.；•....  .•‘!  ".....  ‘  • •• •'.•..  • ' ；  ...  .'、 ? : “ *  •. • Having reviewed  the Executive  Board's  report on the Action Programme  on Essential 
Drugs and Vaccines; 
Satisfied  that the Programme  is making progress  along the lines endorsed  by the 
Thirty-fifth  World Health Assembly； 
Noting with satisfaction  that Member States,  development  agencies,  the pharmaceutical 
industry  and a number of other partners  are increasingly  responding  to the challenge  of the 
Programme; 
Welcoming  in particular  the close collaboration  between  WHO and the United Nations 
Children's  Fund in carrying  out the Programme; 
Recognizing  at the same time that a number of major issues remain to be resolved; 
!• ENDORSES  the Executive  Board 1 s report； 
2. URGES  Member States; 
(1) to intensify  their action to introduce  and implement  drug policies  along the lines 
endorsed  by the Thirty-fifth  World Health Assembly  in resolution  WHA35.27； 
(2) to intensify  training  of personnel  to achieve  the objectives  proposed  by the 
Programme； 
(3) to strengthen  cooperation  among themselves  for the implementation  of the Programme； 
URGES the regional  committees； 
(1) to encourage  Member States in their region to give support  to the Programme  along 
the lines endorsed  by the Thirty-fifth  World Health Assembly； 
(2) to ensure adequate  resources  in their regional  programme  budgets  to support  Member 
States in their efforts； 
(3) to review periodically  progress  in implementing  the Programme  in their region and 
report thereon  to the Executive  Board； 
WHA37.32 
page 2 
4. REQUESTS  the Executive  Board; 
(1) to continue  to review closely  progress  in implementing  the Programme； 
(2) to study major outstanding  issues and define principles  for resolving  them； 
(3) to report periodically  to the Health Assembly  on the above; 
5. REQUESTS  the Director-General: 
(1) to intensify  WHO'S technical  cooperation  with Member States that so desire in 
implementing  national  drug policies  in conformity  with the Programme; 
(2) to facilitate  technical  cooperation  among countries  in carrying  out the Programme 
and specific  components  of it; 
(3) to foster coordinated  action,  including  research,  among all partners  involved 
throughout  the world iri order to ensure the most effective  and efficient  implementation 
of the Programme; 
(4) to continue  to ensure that adequate  resources  are provided  to implement  the 
Programme  and to attract  extrabudgetary  funds to the programmes  of developing  countries； 
(5) to monitor  and evaluate  the Programme  on a çontinuing  basis； 
(6) to continue  to report periodically  to the Executive  Board on progress  achieved  and 
problems  encountered. 
Fourteenth  plenary  meeting,  17 May 1984 
A37/VR/14  。， 
