Fund The Sixteenth World Health Assembly, I Having considered the report of the Director-General on the status of collection of contributions and of advances to the Working Capital Fund as at 30 April 1963; Noting with satisfaction that a large number of Members have paid their annual contributions and advances to the Working Capital Fund, 1. CALLS THE ATTENTION of Members to the importance of paying their contributions as early as possible in the Organization's financial year; 2. REQUESTS Members which have not done so to provide in their national budgets for regular payment to the World Health Organization of their annual contributions; and 3. URGES those Members concerned to make special efforts to liquidate their arrears in the shortest possible time; II Considering that the continued non-payment of arrears could make it necessary to abandon or curtail approved programmes of the Organization ; Noting further with regret that the arrears of Bolivia, Guatemala, Haiti, Panama and Uruguay make it necessary for the Assembly to consider, inaccordance with Article 7 of the Constitution and the provisions of paragraph 2 of resolution WHA8.13, whether or not their right to vote should be suspended at the Sixteenth World Health Assembly, 1. DECIDES not to suspend the voting rights of the delegations concerned at the Sixteenth World Health Assembly ; 2. REQUESTS the Executive Board, at its sessions when the agenda of the World Health Assembly is prepared, to make specific recommendations, with the reasons therefor, to the Health Assembly with regard to any Members in arrears in the payment of contributions to the Organization to an extent which would invoke the provisions of Article 7 of the Constitution; 3. INVITES Members that are in arrears to an extent which would invoke the provisions of Article 7 of the Constitution to submit to the Executive Board a statement of their intentions as to payment of their arrears, so that the Health Assembly, when it considers the matter inaccordance with the provisions of resolution WHA8.13, will be able to make its decision on the basis of the statements of such Members and the recommendations of the Executive Board; 4. REQUESTS the Director-General to study with the Member States concerned the difficulties of these countries and to report to the appropriate sessions of the Executive Board and the World Health Assembly; 5. REQUESTS further the Director-General to communicate this resolution to the Members which maybe concerned. Handb. Res., 6th ed 7.1.2.4; 7.1.3.3 Eleventh plenary meeting, 18 May 1963 (Committee on Administration, Finance and Legal Matters, third report) .