The Thirteenth World Health Assembly, Having reviewed the report of the Director-General on the Malaria Eradication Special Account; 1 Having considered resolution EB25.R19 of the Executive Board; Having noted that up to the present time voluntary contributions to the Special Account have not been forthcoming insufficient amounts to ensure the continued financing of the programme in the way envisaged by the decision of the Eighth World Health Assembly; 2 Bearing in mind that malaria eradication is an urgent programme limited in time, which will probably require assistance from the Special Account for several years, after which time the problem should be so reduced that completion of the task could be financed by the governments concerned, with some assistance, if necessary, from the regular budget of the Organization; Aware of the ever-growing understanding that the eradication of malaria is of paramount importance for the general health, social and economic advancement of the malarious countries and the prosperity of the world community as a whole, 1. THANKS those donors whose contributions to the Malaria Eradication Special Account have made it possible to finance the programme to date; 2. ENDORSES the action taken by the Executive Board and the Director-General as described in the Director-General's report; 3. COMMENDS the Director-General, his special representatives and his staff for the energetic efforts which they have made to secure additional contributions to the Special Account, as requested by the World Health Assembly; 4. CONSIDERS that a stage has definitely been reached when the financing of the Organization's eradication operations through the Malaria Eradication Special Account ona voluntary basis will no longer be possible without the full support of all the economically more privileged countries of the world ; 5. NOTES with gratification that important initiative has been taken recently by a number of countries with a view to contributing substantially to the Special Account and encouraging other countries to support it; 6. EXPRESSES the hope that other economically more advanced countries will soon join in this endeavour and will, in the light of the detailed programme plans and related costs and considering the results achieved to date, make substantial contributions in order to provide resources to enable the World Health Organization to give the assistance needed by the less developed countries, which are already investing considerable sums for their malaria eradication programmes; 7. CALLS THE ATTENTION of Member States to the need for support from individual governments in the effort to obtain contributions from industry or the general public; 8. CONSIDERS that continuing efforts should be made to finance the malaria eradication programme ona voluntary basis and reiterates its appeal to Member States, and to foundations, industry, labour organizations, institutions and individuals to contribute to the Malaria Eradication Special Account; 9. REQUESTS the Director-General to report to the Fourteenth World Health Assembly on the situation; and 10. DECIDES to reappraise the financial situation of the Malaria Eradication Special Account at the Fourteenth World Health Assembly and, should sufficient contributions not be forthcoming, to consider appropriate measures to ensure the financing of the programme. Handb. Res., 5th ed., 7.1.8.1 Eleventh plenary meeting, 19 May 1960, (fifth report of the Committee on Administration, Finance and Legal Matters)