The Thirteenth World Health Assembly, Noting with satisfaction the actions taken by the Executive Board and the Director-General with regard to headquarters accommodation since the Twelfth World Health Assembly, including the arrangements for and the completion of the architectural competition; 1 Having examined the Director-General's estimates of the cost of constructing anew building and the arrangements foreseen for its financing and noting that these are consistent with the provisional authorization established by the Twelfth World Health Assembly ; and Noting with appreciation the action of the Swiss Federal Assembly in approving the interest-free loan of Sw. fr. 20 000 000 and the initiation by the Council of State of the Republic and Canton of Geneva of action to acquire the building site which it has offered in addition toa loan of Sw. fr. 10 000 000 at interest of 15 / s per cent., 1. AUTHORIZES the construction of the building at a cost not exceeding Sw. fr. 40 000 000; 2. AUTHORIZES the Executive Board to exercise the following functions in addition to those delegated by resolution WHA12.12, and to redelegate this authority toa standing committee of three members of the Board or their alternates and in addition, ex officio, the Chairman of the Executive Board : (a) to approve the procedures for the inviting of tenders for the prime contracts; (b) to approve the specifications which form the basis of the invitation of such tenders; (c) to approve the criteria for the award of such contracts; (d) to make decisions as necessary on any other aspects of the building project on the basis of reports tobe submitted by the Director-General; (e) to review periodically the progress of the work and report thereon ; (J) to review periodically the general financial position of the building project and in particular the rate of expenditure in relation to the estimates; (g) to inquire into and to inform themselves on any matter relating to the headquarters building which they consider necessary; The members of the standing committee of the Board shall, after appointment, hold office until the completion of the building project except with regard to the Chairman of the Executive Board; provided that in the event that any of the members of the committee or their alternates are unable to attend, the Executive Board shall provide for replacements; 3. AUTHORIZES the Director-General, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above, to take all necessary measures to ensure the successful conclusion of the building project and in particular to execute on behalf of the Organization : (a) agreements with the Swiss Confederation and the Republic and Canton of Geneva regarding the credits offered; (Z>) the contract with the architect chosen as a result of the architectural competition; (c) any necessary construction and supply contracts in connexion with this building project; 4. INVITES the attention of Member governments, aswell as foundations, institutions and other agencies and individuals to the possibility of furthering the provision of suitable headquarters accommodation for WHO to supplement the authorization provided in paragraph 1, by voluntary contributions to the Building Fund and by gifts of furnishings, decorations and equipment which the Director-General indicates tobe needed; and REQUESTS the Director-General to inform all Member governments of WHO as to the nature of contributions in kind which would be acceptable for the new building; 5. REQUESTS the Director-General to convey once again to the authorities of the Swiss Confederation and the Republic and Canton of Geneva the Organization's gratitude for the assistance which they are providing in the realization of adequate headquarters accommodation; and 6. REQUESTS the Director-General and the Executive Board to make a further progress report to the Fourteenth World Health Assembly regarding headquarters accommodation. Handb. Res., 5th ed., 7.4 Eleventh plenary meeting, 19 May 1960, (fifth report of the Committee on Administration, Finance and Legal Matters)