er The Eighteenth World Health Assembly, Cognizant of Article 18 of the Constitution which provides, inter alia, that one of the functions of the Health Assembly shall be to establish such other institutions as it may consider desirable, with a view to promoting and carrying on research Considering that the Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America have agreed to sponsor the creation and to participate in the functioning of an International Agency for Research on Cancer 1 inaccordance with the provisions of its Statute; Considering that many governments have expressed their interest in the creation of such an Agency and Considering resolution WHA 17.49 of the Seventeenth World Health Assembly, DECIDES to establish an International Agency for Research on Cancer which shall carry on its functions inaccordance with the provisions of its Statute (annexed). Handb. Res., 7th ed., 1.7.6; 1.11 Twelfth plenary meeting, 20 May 1965 (Committee on Programme and Budget, sixth report) ANNEX STATUTE OF INTERNATIONAL AGENCY FOR RESEARCH ON CANCER Article I Objective The objective of the International Agency for Research on Cancer shall be to promote international collaboration in cancer research. The Agency shall serve as a means through which Participating States and the World Health Organization, in liaison with the International Union against Cancer and other interested international organizations, may co-operate in the stimulation and support of all phases of research related to the problem of cancer. Article II Functions In order to achieve its objectives, the Agency shall have the following functions : 1. The Agency shall make provision for planning, promoting and developing research in all phases of the causation, treatment and prevention of cancer. 2. The Agency shall carry out a programme of permanent activities. These activities shall include : (a) the collection and dissemination of information on epidemiology of cancer, on cancer research and on the causation and prevention of cancer throughout the world (b) the consideration of proposals and preparation of plans for projects in, or in support of, cancer research such projects should be designed to make the best possible use of any scientific and financial resources and special opportunities for studies of the natural history of cancer which may arise (c) the education and training of personnel for cancer research. 3. The Agency may arrange for the carrying out of special projects however, such special projects shall be initiated only upon the specific approval of the Governing Council, based upon the recommendation of the Scientific Council. 4. Such special projects may include : (a) activities complementary to the permanent programme; (b) the demonstration of pilot cancer prevention activities; (c) the encouragement of, and the giving of assistance to, research at the national level, if necessary by the direct establishment of research organizations. 5. In carrying out its programme of permanent services or any special projects the Agency may collaborate with any other entity. Article III Participating States Any Member of the World Health Organization may, subject to the provisions of Article XII, participate actively in the Agency by undertaking, in a notification to the Director-General of the World Health Organization, to observe and apply the provisions of this Statute. In this Statute, Members which have made such a notification are termed Participating States ". Article IV Structure The Agency shall comprise : (a) the Governing Council (b) the Scientific Council; (c) the Secretariat. Article V The Governing Council 1. The Governing Council shall be composed of one representative of each Participating State and the Director-General of the World Health Organization, who maybe accompanied by alternates or advisers. 2. Each member of the Governing Council shall have one vote. 3. The Governing Council shall : (a) adopt the budget; ) adopt financial regulations (c) control expenditure (d) decide on the size of the Secretariat () elect its officers (f) adopt its own rules of procedure. 4. The Governing Council, after considering the recommendations of the Scientific Council, shall : (a) adopt the programme of permanent activities ) approve any special project () decide upon any supplementary programme. 5. Decisions of the Governing Council under sub-paragraphs {a) and {b) of paragraph 3 of this Article shall be made by a two-thirds majority of its members who are representatives of Participating States. 6. Decisions of the Governing Council shall be taken by a simple majority of members present and voting, except as otherwise provided in this Statute. A majority of members shall constitute a quorum. 7. The Governing Council shall meet inordinary session at least once in each year, extraordinary session at the request of one-third of its members. 8. The Governing Council may appoint sub-committees and working groups. It may also meet in Article VI The Scientific Council 1. The Scientific Council shall be composed of twelve highly qualified scientists, selected on the basis of their technical competence in cancer research and allied fields. 2. The members of the Scientific Council shall be appointed by the Governing Council. The DirectorGeneral of the World Health Organization, after consultation with qualified scientific organizations, shall propose alist of experts to the Governing Council. 3. Each member of the Scientific Council shall serve fora term of three years. However, of the members first appointed, the terms of four members shall expire at the end of one year, and the terms of four more members shall expire at the end of two years. The members whose terms are to expire at the end of one year and the members whose terms are to expire at the end of two years shall be chosen by tobe drawn by the Director-General of the World Health Organization immediately after the first appointments have been made. Any member leaving the Scientific Council can be re-appointed only after at least one year has elapsed, except those who have been chosen by lot inaccordance with the above procedure. 4. The Scientific Council shall be responsible for : {a) adopting its own rules of procedure; (b) the periodical evaluation of the activities of the Agency (c) recommending programmes of permanent activities and preparing special projects for submission to the Governing Council (d) the periodical evaluation of special projects sponsored by the Agency (e) reporting to the Governing Council, for consideration at the time that body considers the programme and budget, upon the matters dealt within sub-paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) above. Article VII Secretariat 1. Subject to the general authority of the Director-General of the World Health Organization, the Secretariat shall be the administrative and technical organ of the Agency. It shall in addition carry out the decisions of the Governing Council and the Scientific Council. 2. The Secretariat shall consist of the Director of the Agency and such technical and administrative staff as maybe required. 3. The Director of the Agency shall be selected by the Governing Council. The appointment shall be effected by the Director-General of the World Health Organization on such terms as the Governing Council may determine. 4. The staff of the Agency shall be appointed in a manner tobe determined by agreement between the Director-General of the World Health Organization and the Director of the Agency. 5. The Director of the Agency shall be the chief executive officer of the Agency. He shall be responsible for : (a) preparing the future programme and the budget estimates; (b) supervising the execution of the programme and the scientific activities (c) directing administrative and financial matters. 6. The Director of the Agency shall submit a report on the progress of the Agency and the budget estimates for the next financial year to each Participating State and to the Director-General of the World Health Organization, which shall be distributed to reach them at least thirty days before the regular annual meeting of the Governing Council. Article VIII Finance 1. The administrative services and permanent activities of the Agency shall be financed by equal annual contributions by each Participating State. 2. These annual contributions shall be due on 1 January of each year and must bepaid not later than 31 December of that year. 3. These annual contributions shall be $150 000. 4. The amount of these contributions shall not be changed for five years except by unanimous decision of the Governing Council. After that period, any decision to change the amount shall require a two-thirds majority of the members of the Governing Council who are representatives of Participating States. 5. A Participating State which is in arrears in the payment of its annual contribution shall have no vote in the Governing Council if the amount of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of contributions due from it for the preceding financial year. 6. The Governing Council may establish a working capital fund and decide its amount. 7. The Governing Council shall be empowered to accept grants or special contributions from any individual, body or government. The special projects of the Agency shall be financed from such grants or special contributions. 8. The funds and assets of the Agency shall be treated as trust funds under Article VI (6.6 and 6.7) of the Financial Regulations of the World Health Organization. They shall be accounted for separately from the funds and assets of the World Health Organization and administered inaccordance with the financial regulations adopted by the Governing Council. Article IX Headquarters The site of the headquarters of the Agency shall be determined by the Governing Council. Article X Amendments Except as provided in Article VIII, 4, amendments to this Statute shall come into force when adopted by the Governing Council by a two-thirds majority of its members who are representatives of Participating States and accepted by the World Health Assembly. Article XI Entry into Force The provisions of this Statute shall enter into force when five of the States which took the initiative in proposing the International Agency for Research on Cancer have given the undertaking referred to in Article III to observe and apply the provisions of the present Statute. Article XII New Participating States After the entry into force of this Statute, any State Member of the World Health Organization maybe admitted as a Participating State, provided that : (a) the Governing Council, by a two-thirds majority of its members who are representatives of Participating States, considers that the State is able to contribute effectively to the scientific and technical work of the Agency (b) and thereafter, the State gives the undertaking referred to in Article III. Article XIII Withdrawal from Participation A Participating State may withdraw from participation in the operation of the Agency by notifying the Director-General of the World Health Organization of its intention to withdraw. Such a notification shall take effect six months after its receipt by the Director-General of the World Health Organization.