d The Twelfth World Health Assembly, Considering the proposal made by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning the increase in the number of persons designated to serve on the Executive Board; 1 Having examined the text of the amendments to Articles 24 and 25 of the Constitution communicated by the Director-General to Member States on 3 November 1958; and Noting that the provision of Article 73 of the Constitution, which requires that proposed amendments to the Constitution shall be communicated to Members at least six months before consideration by the Health Assembly, has been duly complied with, 1. ADOPTS the amendments to the Constitution set forth in the Annexes 2 to this resolution, and which shall form an integral part of this resolution, the texts in the Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish languages being equally authentic; 2. DECIDES that two copies of this resolution shall be authenticated by the signatures of the President of the Twelfth World Health Assembly, and the Director-General of the World Health Organization, of which one copy shall be transmitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, depositary of the Constitution, and one copy retained in the archives of the World Health Organization; and 3. FURTHER DECIDES that acceptance of the amendments to the Constitution set forth in this resolution under Article 73 of the Constitution, shall be effected by the deposit of a formal instrument with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Eleventh plenary meeting, 28 May 1959 (section 5 of the fourth report of the Committee on Administration Finance and Legal Matters) ANNEXA CHINESE TEXT $- * rfj ^ V fy % 4 X2? . I il J) : M. f | jrjfji S, & L. ft j ' ) J I^U^ ^ A A. ^ 4 ^ 4A ^ <!ft ^ ci ^ | ^ kk ik ^- h i%) ^ | ti ^ f<? 4 ANNEX B ENGLISH TEXT In Article 24 substitute the word " twenty-four " for the word " eighteen ". Delete the whole Article 25 and replace by : " These Members shall be elected for three years and maybe re-elected, provided that of the twelve Members elected at the first session of the Health Assembly held after the coming into force of the amendment to this Constitution increasing the membership of the Board from eighteen to twenty-four the terms of two Members shall be for one year and the terms of two Members shall be for two years, as determined by lot." ANNEX C FRENCH TEXT Dans l'article 24, remplacer le mot " dix-huit " parle mot " vingt-quatre ". Supprimer entirement le texte de l'article 25 et le remplacer parle texte suivant: Ces Membres sont lus pour trois ans et sont rligibles ; cependant, parmi les douze Membres lus lors de la premire session de l'Assemble de la Sant qui suivra l'entre en vigueur de l'amende-ment la prsente Constitution portant le nombre des membres du Conseil de dix-huit vingt-quatre, le mandat de deux de ces Membres sera d'un an et le mandat de deux autres Membres sera de deux ans, la slection s'oprant par tirage au sort. ANNEX D RUSSIAN TEXT B CTATBE 24 CJIOBO BOCEMHA / MATH 3AMEHHTB CJIOBOM ABA^NATH qexbipex . CTaTLKI 25 LOJTHOCTMO H3"b5ITb H 3aMeHHTb CTaTbCM B CjieflyjOlHCH (J)OpMyjIHpOBKe : 3TH rocyflapcTBa-HJienbi loGi-ipaiorca cpoKOM Ha ipn ro / ja H MoryT 6biTb nepeH36HpaeMbi, npnneM HMeeTCH B BH / iy, MTO H3 'mena ABeHaauaTH rocyaapcTB-HjieHOB, iopaHHbix Ha 6;iH5KaHiHeH ceccHH AccaMJieH 3 / ipaBooxpaHCHHH nocjie BCTynjienHH B CHJiy nonpaBicH K HacTOsimeMy YcTaBy, yBenHHHBaiomeH HJieHCKHH cocTaB HcnojiKOMa c BOCCMiiafluaTM flo ABa^uaTH Heibipex, ABa rocy^apCTBa-HJieHa coxpaHHior CBOH HOJIHOMOHHH B npo / ioji / KCHne o^noro ro^a, a aBa npyrwx B npo^ouxceHHe flByx JieT, no acpenio. ANNEX E SPANISH TEXT En el Artculo 24 sustityase dieciocho por veinticuatro . En el Artculo 25 sustityase la redaccin actual por la siguiente: Los Miembros sern elegidos por un periodo de tres aos y podrn ser reelegidos, con la sal-vedad de que entre los elegidos en la primera reunin de la Asamblea de la Salud celebrada despus de entrar en vigor la presente reforma de la Constitucin que aumenta de dieciocho a veinticuatro el nmero de los miembros del Consejo, el periodo ser de un ao parados de ellos y de dos aos para otros dos, segn lo que resulte del sorteo practicado al efecto.