WHA12.43  Amendment  to Articles  24 and  25 of the  Constitution:  Increase  in the  Number  of Members entitled  to designate  a Person  to serve  on the  Executive  Board 
The Twelfth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Considering  the  proposal  made  by the  Government  of the  United  Kingdom  of Great  Britain  and 
Northern  Ireland  concerning  the increase  in the number  of persons  designated  to serve  on the Executive 
Board;  1 
Having  examined  the text  of the amendments  to Articles  24 and  25 of the Constitution  communicated 
by the  Director-General  to Member  States  on 3 November  1958;  and 
Noting  that  the provision  of Article  73 of the Constitution,  which  requires  that  proposed  amendments 
to the  Constitution  shall  be communicated  to Members  at least  six months  before  consideration  by the 
Health  Assembly,  has  been  duly  complied  with, 
1. ADOPTS  the amendments  to the Constitution  set forth  in the Annexes  2 to this  resolution,  and  which 
shall  form  an integral  part  of this  resolution,  the  texts  in the  Chinese,  English,  French,  Russian  and 
Spanish  languages  being  equally  authentic; 
2. DECIDES  that  two  copies  of this  resolution  shall  be authenticated  by the  signatures  of the President 
of the Twelfth  World  Health  Assembly,  and  the Director-General  of the World  Health  Organization,  of 
which  one  copy  shall  be transmitted  to the  Secretary-General  of the United  Nations,  depositary  of the 
Constitution,  and  one  copy  retained  in the  archives  of the  World  Health  Organization;  and 
3. FURTHER  DECIDES  that  acceptance  of the amendments  to the Constitution  set forth  in this  resolution 
under  Article  73 of the  Constitution,  shall  be effected  by the  deposit  of a formal  instrument  with  the 
Secretary-General  of the  United  Nations. 
Eleventh  plenary  meeting,  28 May  1959  (section  5 of 
the fourth  report  of the Committee  on  Administration 
Finance  and  Legal  Matters) 
ANNEX  A 
CHINESE  TEXT 
$ -  * rfj  ^  V fy  %  4 
X2? . 
I il  JÉ)  : 
M. fá  |  jérjfji  S,  &  ÚL.  Ü  ft  j£ 
' ) J 
«I^ÍU^Í  ^  A A. ^ 4 ^ 4A ^ <!ft ^ ci ^ |  ^ kk ik ^  - h 
i%) £  ^  |  ti  ^ 
f<? 4 
ANNEX  B 
ENGLISH  TEXT 
In Article  24 substitute  the word  " twenty-four  " for the word  " eighteen  ". 
Delete  the whole  Article  25 and  replace  by : 
" These  Members  shall  be elected  for three  years  and  may  be re-elected,  provided  that  of the 
twelve  Members  elected  at the first  session  of the Health  Assembly  held  after  the coming  into  force 
of the amendment  to this  Constitution  increasing  the  membership  of the Board  from  eighteen  to 
twenty-four  the terms  of two  Members  shall  be for one  year  and  the terms  of two  Members  shall 
be for two  years,  as determined  by lot." 
ANNEX  C 
FRENCH  TEXT 
Dans  l'article  24, remplacer  le mot  " dix-huit  " par  le mot  " vingt-quatre  ". 
Supprimer  entièrement  le texte  de l'article  25 et le remplacer  par  le texte  suivant: 
« Ces  Membres  sont  élus  pour  trois  ans et sont  rééligibles  ; cependant,  parmi  les douze  Membres élus lors  de la première  session  de l'Assemblée  de la Santé  qui suivra  l'entrée  en vigueur  de l'amende-ment  à la présente  Constitution  portant  le nombre  des membres  du Conseil  de dix-huit  à vingt-quatre, le mandat  de deux  de ces Membres  sera  d'un  an et le mandat  de deux  autres  Membres  sera  de deux ans, la sélection  s'opérant  par  tirage  au sort.  » 
ANNEX  D 
RUSSIAN  TEXT 
B CTATBE  24 CJIOBO  « BOCEMHA/MATH  » 3AMEHHTB  CJIOBOM  « ABA^NATH  qexbipex  ». 
CTaTLKI  25  LÏOJTHOCTMO  H3"b5ITb  H 3aMeHHTb  CTaTbCM  B CjieflyjOlHCH  (J)OpMyjIHpOBKe  : 
« 3TH  rocyflapcTBa-HJienbi  loGi-ipaiorca  cpoKOM  Ha  ipn ro/ja  H MoryT  6biTb  nepeH36HpaeMbi, 
npnneM  HMeeTCH  B BH/iy,  MTO  H3  'mena  ABeHaauaTH  rocyaapcTB-HjieHOB,  ioôpaHHbix  Ha  6;iH5KaHiHeH 
ceccHH  AccaMÔJieH  3/ipaBooxpaHCHHH  nocjie  BCTynjienHH  B CHJiy  nonpaBicH  K HacTOsimeMy  YcTaBy, 
yBenHHHBaiomeH  HJieHCKHH  cocTaB  HcnojiKOMa  c BOCCMiiafluaTM  flo ABa^uaTH  Heibipex,  ABa  rocy^apCTBa-HJieHa  coxpaHHior  CBOH  HOJIHOMOHHH  B npo/ioji/KCHne  o^noro  ro^a, a aBa npyrwx  — B npo^ouxceHHe  flByx  JieT, no acpeônio.  » 
ANNEX  E 
SPANISH  TEXT 
En el Artículo  24 sustitúyase  « dieciocho  » por  « veinticuatro  ». 
En el Artículo  25 sustitúyase  la redacción  actual  por  la siguiente: 
« Los  Miembros  serán  elegidos  por  un periodo  de tres  años  y podrán  ser reelegidos,  con  la sal-vedad  de que  entre  los elegidos  en la primera  reunión  de la Asamblea  de la Salud  celebrada  después de entrar  en vigor  la presente  reforma  de la Constitución  que  aumenta  de dieciocho  a veinticuatro el número  de los miembros  del Consejo,  el periodo  será  de un año  para  dos  de ellos  y de dos  años para  otros  dos,  según  lo que  resulte  del sorteo  practicado  al efecto.  » 
