 
 
 
SIXTY-THIRD WORLD HEAL TH ASSEMBLY WHA63.16 
Agenda item 11.5 21 May 2010 
WHO Global Code of Practice on the International 
Recruitment of Health Personnel 
 
The Sixty-third World Health Assembly, 
Having considered the revised draft global code of practice on the international recruitment of 
health personnel, annexed to the report by the Secr etariat on the international recruitment of health 
personnel: draft global code of practice,1 
1. ADOPTS, in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution, the WHO Gl obal Code of Practice 
on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel; 
2. DECIDES that the first review of the releva nce and effectiveness of the WHO Global Code of 
Practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel shall be made by the Sixty-eighth World 
Health Assembly; 
3. REQUESTS the Director-General: 
(1) to give all possible support to Member States, as and when requested, for the 
implementation of the WHO Global Code of Practi ce on the International Recruitment of Health 
Personnel; 
(2) to cooperate with all stakeholders concer ned with the implementation and monitoring of 
the WHO Global Code of Practice on the Inte rnational Recruitment of Health Personnel; 
(3) to rapidly develop, in consultation with Member States, guidelines for minimum data sets, 
information exchange and reporting on the im plementation of the WHO Global Code of 
Practice on the International R ecruitment of Health Personnel; 
(4) based upon periodic reporting, to make proposals,  if necessary, for the revision of the text 
of the WHO Global Code of Practice on the Inte rnational Recruitment of Health Personnel in 
line with the first review, and for measur es needed for its effective application. 
 
                                                      
1 Document A63/8. WHA63.16 
 
 
  
 
 
2 ANNEX 
WHO GLOBAL CODE OF PRACTICE ON THE 
INTERNATIONAL RECRUITMEN T OF HEALTH PERSONNEL 
Preamble 
The Member States of the World Health Organization: 
Recalling resolution WHA57.19 in which the Worl d Health Assembly requested the DirectorGeneral to develop a voluntary code of practice on th e international recruitment of health personnel in 
consultation with all relevant partners; 
Responding to the calls of the Kampala Declaration adopted at the First Global Forum on 
Human Resources for Health (Kampala, 2–7 Marc h 2008) and the G8 communiqués of 2008 and 2009 
encouraging WHO to accelerate the developm ent and adoption of a code of practice; 
Conscious of the global shortage of health personnel and recognizing th at an adequate and 
accessible health workforce is fundame ntal to an integrated and effective health system and for the 
provision of health services; 
Deeply concerned that the severe shortage of health personnel, including highly educated and 
trained health personnel, in many Member States,  constitutes a major threat  to the performance of 
health systems and undermines the ability of these countries to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals and other internationally agreed development goals; 
Stressing that the WHO global code of practice on the international recruitment of health 
personnel be a core component of bilateral, nationa l, regional and global responses to the challenges of 
health personnel migration and health systems strengthening; 
THEREFORE: 
The Member States hereby agree on the following articles which are recommended as a basis 
for action. 
Article 1 – Objectives 
The objectives of this Code are: (1) to establish and promote voluntary principles and practices for the ethical international 
recruitment of health personnel, taking into acc ount the rights, obligations and expectations of 
source countries, destination count ries and migrant health personnel; 
(2) to serve as a reference for Member States in establishing or improving the legal and 
institutional framework required for the inte rnational recruitment of health personnel; 
(3) to provide guidance that may be used where appropriate in the formulation and 
implementation of bilateral agreements a nd other international legal instruments;   WHA63.16 
 
 
  
 
 
  3  (4) to facilitate and promote internationa l discussion and advance cooperation on matters 
related to the ethical international recruitment of  health personnel as part of strengthening health 
systems, with a particular focus on the situation of developing countries. 
Article 2 – Nature and scope 
2.1 The Code is voluntary. Member States and other stakeholders are strongly encouraged to use the 
Code. 
2.2 The Code is global in scope and is intended as a guide for Member States, working together 
with stakeholders such as health personnel, recr uiters, employers, health-professional organizations, 
relevant subregional, regional a nd global organizations, whether public or private sector, including 
nongovernmental, and all persons concerned with the international recruitment of health personnel. 
2.3 The Code provides ethical principles applicable  to the international recruitment of health 
personnel in a manner that strengthens the health systems of developing countries, countries with 
economies in transition and small island states. 
Article 3 – Guiding principles 
3.1 The health of all people is fundamental to th e attainment of peace and security and is dependent 
upon the fullest cooperation of individuals and states.  Governments have a responsibility for the health 
of their people, which can be fulfilled only by the provision of adequate health and social measures. 
Member States should take the Code into account wh en developing their national health policies and 
cooperating with each other, as appropriate. 
3.2 Addressing present and expected shortages in th e health workforce is crucial to protecting 
global health. International migration of health  personnel can make a sound contribution to the 
development and strengthening of health systems, if  recruitment is properly managed. However, the 
setting of voluntary international principles and the coordination of national policies on international 
health personnel recruitment are desirable in or der to advance frameworks to equitably strengthen 
health systems worldwide, to mitig ate the negative effects of health personnel migration on the health 
systems of developing countries and to safeguard the rights of health personnel. 
3.3 The specific needs and special circumstances of countries, especially those developing countries 
and countries with economies in transition that are particularly vulnerable to health workforce 
shortages and/or have limited capacity to implem ent the recommendations of this Code, should be 
considered. Developed countries should, to the ex tent possible, provide technical and financial 
assistance to developing countries and countries with economies in transition aimed at strengthening 
health systems, including h ealth personnel development. 
3.4 Member States should take into account the right to  the highest attainable standard of health of 
the populations of source countries, individual righ ts of health personnel to leave any country in 
accordance with applicable laws, in order to mitigate the negativ e effects and maximize the positive 
effects of migration on the health systems of the source countries. However, nothing in this Code 
should be interpreted as limiting th e freedom of health personnel, in accordance with applicable laws, 
to migrate to countries that wish to admit and employ them. 
3.5 International recruitment of health personne l should be conducted in accordance with the 
principles of transparency, fairness and promotion of  sustainability of health systems in developing WHA63.16 
 
 
  
 
 
4 countries. Member States, in conformity with natio nal legislation and appli cable international legal 
instruments to which they are a party, should prom ote and respect fair labour practices for all health 
personnel. All aspects of the employment and treatment  of migrant health personnel should be without 
unlawful distinction of any kind. 
3.6 Member States should strive, to the extent possi ble, to create a sustainable health workforce and 
work towards establishing effective health workforce planning, educa tion and training, and retention 
strategies that will reduce their need to recruit migrant health personnel. Policies and measures to 
strengthen the health workforce should be appropriate  for the specific conditio ns of each country and 
should be integrated within na tional development programmes. 
3.7 Effective gathering of nationa l and international data, research  and sharing of information on 
international recruitment of health personnel are needed to achieve the objectives of this Code. 
3.8 Member States should facilitate circular migr ation of health personnel, so that skills and 
knowledge can be achieved to the benefit of  both source and destination countries. 
Article 4 – Responsibilities, rights and recruitment practices 
4.1. Health personnel, health professional organizations, professiona l councils and recruiters should 
seek to cooperate fully with regulators, national and lo cal authorities in the interests of patients, health 
systems, and of society in general. 
4.2 Recruiters and employers should, to the ex tent possible, be aware of and consider the 
outstanding legal responsibility of health personnel to the health system of their own country such as a 
fair and reasonable contract of service and not seek  to recruit them. Health personnel should be open 
and transparent about any contract ual obligations they may have. 
4.3 Member States and other stakeholders should r ecognize that ethical international recruitment 
practices provide health personnel with the opportunity to assess the be nefits and risks associated with 
employment positions and to make timely and informed decisions. 
4.4 Member States should, to the extent possible, under applicable laws, ensure that recruiters and 
employers observe fair and just recruitment and contractual practices in the employment of migrant health personnel and that migran t health personnel are not subjec t to illegal or fraudulent conduct. 
Migrant health personnel should be hired, promoted  and remunerated based on objective criteria, such 
as levels of qualification, years of experience and degrees of professional responsibility on the basis of 
equality of treatment with the domestically trained health workforce. Recruiters and employers should 
provide migrant health personnel with relevant a nd accurate information about all health personnel 
positions that they are offered. 
4.5 Member States should ensure that, subject to a pplicable laws, including relevant international 
legal instruments to which they are a party, migr ant health personnel enjoy the same legal rights and 
responsibilities as the domestically trained hea lth workforce in all terms of employment and 
conditions of work. 
4.6 Member States and other stakeholders should take measures to ensure that migrant health 
personnel enjoy opportunities and in centives to strengthen their professional education, qualifications 
and career progression, on the basis of equal treatment  with the domestically trained health workforce 
subject to applicable laws. All migrant health pe rsonnel should be offered appropriate induction and   WHA63.16 
 
 
  
 
 
  5  orientation programmes that enable them to operate safely and effectively within the health system of 
the destination country. 
4.7  Recruiters and employers should understand that  the Code applies equally to those recruited to 
work on a temporary or permanent basis. 
Article 5 – Health workforce developm ent and health systems sustainability 
5.1 In accordance with the guiding pr inciple as stated in Article 3 of this Code, the health systems 
of both source and destination countries should derive  benefits from the international migration of 
health personnel. Destination countries are encourag ed to collaborate with source countries to sustain 
and promote health human resource development and training as appropriate. Member States should 
discourage active recruitment of health personnel from developing countries facing critical shortages 
of health workers. 
5.2 Member States should use this Code as a guide when entering into bilateral, and/or regional 
and/or multilateral arrangements, to promote international cooperati on and coordination on 
international recruitment of health personnel. Such  arrangements should take into account the needs of 
developing countries and countries with economies in transition through the a doption of appropriate 
measures. Such measures may include the provision of effective and appropriate technical assistance, 
support for health personnel retention, social and professional recognition of health personnel, support 
for training in source countries that is appropriate fo r the disease profile of such countries, twinning of 
health facilities, support for capacity building in  the development of appropriate regulatory 
frameworks, access to spec ialized training, technology and skills transfers, and the support of return 
migration, whether temporary or permanent. 
5.3 Member States should recognize the value both to their health systems and to health personnel 
themselves of professional exchanges between countri es and of opportunities to work and train abroad. 
Member States in both source and destination countries should encourage and support health 
personnel to utilize work experience gained ab road for the benefit of their home country. 
5.4 As the health workforce is central to sustainable health sy stems, Member States should take 
effective measures to educate, retain and sustain a he alth workforce that is appropriate for the specific 
conditions of each country, including areas of gr eatest need, and is built upon an evidence-based 
health workforce plan. All Member States should strive  to meet their health personnel needs with their 
own human resources for health, as far as possible. 
5.5 Member States should consider strengthening edu cational institutions to scale up the training of 
health personnel and devel oping innovative curricula to address curre nt health needs. Member States 
should undertake steps to ensure that appropriate tr aining takes place in the public and private sectors. 
5.6 Member States should consider adopting a nd implementing effective measures aimed at 
strengthening health systems, continuous monitori ng of the health labour market, and coordination 
among all stakeholders in order to  develop and retain a sustainable health workforce responsive to 
their population’s health needs. Member States s hould adopt a multisectoral approach to addressing 
these issues in national health and development policies. 
5.7 Member States should consider adopting measu res to address the geographical maldistribution 
of health workers and to support their retention in  underserved areas, such as through the application 
of education measures, financial incentives, re gulatory measures, social and professional support. WHA63.16 
 
 
  
 
 
6 Article 6 – Data gathering and research 
6.1 Member States should recognize that the formul ation of effective policies and plans on the 
health workforce requires a sound evidence base. 
6.2 Taking into account characteristics of national h ealth systems, Member States are encouraged to 
establish or strengthen and maintain, as appropriate, health personnel information systems, including 
health personnel migration, and its impact on hea lth systems. Member St ates are encouraged to 
collect, analyse and translate data into eff ective health workforce policies and planning. 
6.3 Member States are encouraged to establish or strengthen research programmes in the field of 
health personnel migration and coordinate such  research programmes through partnerships at the 
national, subnational, regiona l and international levels. 
6.4 WHO, in collaboration with relevant intern ational organizations and Member States, is 
encouraged to ensure, as much as possible, that  comparable and reliable data are generated and 
collected pursuant to paragraphs 6.2 and 6.3 for ong oing monitoring, analysis and policy formulation. 
Article 7 – Information exchange 
7.1 Member States are encouraged to, as appropriate and subject to national law, promote the 
establishment or strengthening of information excha nge on international h ealth personnel migration 
and health systems, nationally and internationally , through public agencies, academic and research 
institutions, health professional organizations, and subregional, regi onal and international 
organizations, whether governmental or nongovernmental. 
7.2 In order to promote and facilitate the exchange of  information that is rele vant to this Code, each 
Member State should, to the extent possible: 
(a) progressively establish and maintain an update d database of laws a nd regulations related 
to health personnel recruitment and migration and, as appropriate, information about their 
implementation; 
(b) progressively establish and maintain update d data from health personnel information 
systems in accordance with Article 6.2; and 
(c) provide data collected pursuant to s ubparagraphs (a) and (b ) above to the WHO 
Secretariat every three years, beginning with an  initial data report within two years after the 
adoption of the Code by the Health Assembly. 
7.3 For purposes of international communication, each Member State should, as appropriate, 
designate a national authority responsible for the ex change of information re garding health personnel 
migration and the implementation of the Code. Me mber States so designating such an authority, 
should inform WHO. The designated national authority  should be authorized to communicate directly 
or, as provided by national law or regulations, with  designated national authorities of other Member 
States and with the WHO Secretariat and other region al and international orga nizations concerned, and 
to submit reports and other information to the WHO Secretariat pursuant to subparagraph 7.2(c) and 
Article 9.1.   WHA63.16 
 
 
  
 
 
  7  7.4 A register of designated national authoriti es pursuant to paragraph 7.3 above shall be 
established, maintained and published by WHO. 
Article 8 – Implementation of the Code 
8.1 Member States are encouraged to publicize a nd implement the Code in  collaboration with all 
stakeholders as stipulated in Article 2.2, in acco rdance with national and subnational responsibilities. 
8.2 Member States are encouraged to incorporate the Code into applicable laws and policies. 
8.3 Member States are encouraged to consult, as a ppropriate, with all stakeholders as stipulated in 
Article 2.2 in decision-making processes and invol ve them in other activities related to the 
international recruitment of health personnel. 
8.4 All stakeholders referred to in  Article 2.2 should strive to work individually and collectively to 
achieve the objectives of this Code. All stakeholde rs should observe this Code, irrespective of the 
capacity of others to observe the Code. Recruite rs and employers should cooperate fully in the 
observance of the Code and promote the guiding principles expressed by the Code, irrespective of a 
Member State’s ability to implement the Code. 
8.5 Member States should, to the extent possibl e, and according to legal responsibilities, working 
with relevant stakeholders, maintain  a record, updated at regular intervals, of all recruiters authorized 
by competent authorities to operate within their jurisdiction. 
8.6 Member States should, to the extent possi ble, encourage and promote good practices among 
recruitment agencies by only using those agencies th at comply with the guiding principles of the Code. 
8.7 Member States are encouraged to observe and assess the magnitude of active international 
recruitment of health personnel from countries facing critical shortage of health personnel, and assess 
the scope and impact of circular migration. 
Article 9 – Monitoring and institutional arrangements 
9.1 Member States should periodically report the measures taken, results achieved, difficulties 
encountered and lessons learnt into a single report in  conjunction with the provisions of Article 7.2(c). 
9.2 The Director-General shall keep under review the implementation of this Code, on the basis of 
periodic reports received from designated national au thorities pursuant to Articles 7.3 and 9.1 and 
other competent sources, and periodically report to the World Health Assembly on the effectiveness of 
the Code in achieving its stated objectives and sugg estions for its improvement . This report would be 
submitted in conjunction with Article 7.2(c). 
9.3 The Director-General shall: 
(a) support the information exchange system  and the network of designated national 
authorities specified in Article 7; 
(b) develop guidelines and make recommendati ons on practices and procedures and such 
joint programmes and measures as specified by the Code; and WHA63.16 
 
 
  
 
 
8 (c) maintain liaison with the United Nations, the International Labour Organization, the 
International Organization for Migration, an d other competent regional and international 
organizations as well as concerned nongovernmental  organizations to supp ort implementation of 
the Code. 
9.4 WHO Secretariat may consider reports from stakeholders as stipulated in Article 2.2 on 
activities related to the implementation of the Code. 
9.5 The World Health Assembly should periodically  review the relevance and effectiveness of the 
Code. The Code should be considered a dynamic te xt that should be brought up to date as required. 
Article 10 – Partnerships, technical collaboration and financial support 
10.1 Member States and other stakeholders shoul d collaborate directly or through competent 
international bodies to strengthen their capacity to implement the objectives of the Code. 
10.2 International organizations, in ternational donor agencies, financ ial and development institutions, 
and other relevant organizations are encouraged to  provide their technical and financial support to 
assist the implementation of this Code and suppor t health system strengthening in developing 
countries and countries with economies in transition that are experiencing critical health workforce 
shortages and/or have limited cap acity to implement the objectives of this Code. Such organizations 
and other entities should be encouraged to cooperate  with countries facing critical shortages of health 
workers and undertake to ensure that funds provide d for disease-specific interventions are used to 
strengthen health systems capacity, including health personnel development. 
10.3 Member States either on th eir own or via their engageme nt with national and regional 
organizations, donor organizations  and other relevant bodies shoul d be encouraged to provide 
technical assistance and financial support to deve loping countries or count ries with economies in 
transition, aiming at strengthening health systems capacity, including health personnel development in 
those countries. 
Eighth plenary meeting, 21 May 2010 
A63/VR/8 
 
=     =     = 