WHA10.44  Amendments  to the Rules  of Procedure  of the  Health  Assembly 
The Tenth  World  Health  Assembly 
I. ADOPTS  the revised  Rules  12, 79, 80, 83 and  111  of the Rules  of Procedure  of the Health  Assembly  as 
shown  in the Annex  to this  resolution; 
Moreover, 
II. Considering  the  Rules  of Procedure  of the Assembly  relating  to the period  for which  Members  are 
elected  to nominate  a person  to serve  on the Executive  Board;  and 
Considering  that  the procedural  provisions  applicable  should  be reconciled  with  a strict  interpretation 
of the relevant  provisions  of the Constitution, 
1. DECIDES  to maintain  provisionally  the existing  texts  of Rules  92 and  99; 
2. INVITES  the Executive  Board,  in consultation  with  the Director-General,  to review  the text  of Rule  92 
so as to introduce  a fixed  date  on which  the period  for which  Members  are elected  to designate  persons  to 
serve  on the  Board  would  commence  and  end,  selecting  the  date  best  meeting  the  requirements  of the 
work  of the Organization;  and 
3. FURTHER  INVITES  the Executive  Board  to report  to the Eleventh  World  Health  Assembly. 
Annex 
Rule 12 
Subject  to the  provisions  of Rule  11 regarding  new  activities  and  to the  provisions  of Rule  90, a 
supplementary  item  may  be added  to the agenda  during  any  session,  if upon  the  report  of the General 
Committee  the Assembly  so decides,  provided  that  the request  for the inclusion  of the supplementary  item 
reaches  the Organization  within  six days  from  the day  of the opening  of a regular  session  or within  two 
days  from  the day  of the opening  of a special  session,  both  periods  being  inclusive  of the opening  day. 
Rule 79 
Speeches  made  in either  of the working  languages  shall  be interpreted  into  the other  working  language 
and Russian  and  Spanish.  Speeches  made  in Russian  or Spanish  shall  be interpreted  into  both  working 
languages  and  into  Spanish  or Russian. 
Rule 80 
Speeches  made  in the  official  languages  other  than  English,  French,  Russian  and  Spanish  shall  be 
interpreted  into  both  working  languages  and  into  Russian  and  Spanish. 
Rule 83 
All resolutions,  recommendations  and  other  formal  decisions  of the Health  Assembly  shall  be made 
available  in the working  languages  and  in Russian  and  Spanish. 
Rule 111 
The approval  by the Health  Assembly  of any  request  for associate  membership  made  by a Member 
or other  authority  having  responsibility  for the international  relations  of a territory  or group  of territories 
on behalf  of such  territory  or group  of territories  shall  be communicated  immediately  to the Member  or 
other  authority  which  has  submitted  the  request.  Such  Member  or other  authority  shall  give  notice  to 
the Organization  of acceptance  on behalf  of the Associate  Member  of associate  membership.  The  territory 
or group  of territories  shall  become  an Associate  Member  from  the date  on which  such  notice  is received. 
Twelfth  plenary  meeting,  24  May  1957  (section  3 of 
the fifth  report  of the Committee  on  Administration, 
Finance  and  Legal  Matters) 
