s The Sixty-sixth World Health Assembly, Having considered the reports to the Sixty-sixth World Health Assembly on noncommunicable diseases;1 Recalling the Political Declaration of the High-lev el Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases which acknowledges that the global burden and threat of noncommunicable diseases constitutes one of the major challenges for development in the twenty-first century and which also requests the development of a comprehensive global monitoring framework, including a set of indicators , calls for recommendations ona set of voluntary global targets, and requests options for strengthening and facilitating multisectoral action for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases through effective partnership; Welcoming the outcome document of the United Nation s Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio de Janeiro, 2022 June 2012), enti tled The future we want which commits to strengthen health systems towards the provision of equitable, universal health coverage and promote affordable access to prevention, treatment, care and support related to noncommunicable diseases, especially cancer, cardiovascular diseases, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes, and commits to establish or strengthen multisectoral national poli cies for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases; Taking note with appreciation of all the regional i nitiatives undertaken on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, including the Declaration of the Heads of State and Government of the Caribbean Community entitled Uniting to stop the epidemic of chronic noncommunicable diseases, adopted in September 200 7, the Libreville Declaration on Health and Environment in Africa, adopted in August 2008, the statement of the Commonwealth Heads of Government on action to combat noncommunicable dise ases, adopted in November 2009, the 1 Documents A66 / 8 and A66 / 9. 2 United Nations General Assembly resolution 66 / 2. 3 United Nations General Assembly resolution 66 / 288. WHA66.10 2 declaration of commitment of the Fifth Summit of the Americas, adopted in June 2009, the Parma Declaration on Environment and Health, adopted by the Member States of the WHO European Region in March 2010, the Dubai Declaration on Diabetes and Chronic Noncommunicable Diseases in the Middle East and Northern Africa Region, adopted in December 2010, the European Charter on Counteracting Obesity, adopted in November 2006, the Aruba Call for Action on Obesity of June 2011, and the Honiara Communique on addressing noncommunicable disease challenges in the Pacific region, adopted in July 2011; Acknowledging the Moscow Declaration adopted by the First Global Ministerial Conference on Healthy Lifestyles and Noncommunicable Disease Control (Moscow, 2829 April 2011), endorsed by the Sixty-fourth World Health Assembly (resolution WHA64.11), which requests the Director-General to develop, together with relevant United Nations a gencies and entities, an implementation and follow-up plan for the outcomes of the Conference and the High-level Meeting of the United Nations General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of N on-communicable Diseases (New York, 1920September 2011) for submission to the Sixty-si xth World Health Assembly; Acknowledging also the Rio Political Declaration on Social Determinants of Health adopted by the World Conference on Social Determinants of Health (Rio de Janeiro, 1921 October 2011), endorsed by the Sixty-fifth World Health Assembly in resolution WHA65.8, which recognizes that health equity is a shared responsibility and requires the engagement of all sectors of government, all segments of society, and all members of the international commu nity, in an all-for-equity and health-for-all global action; Recalling resolution EB130.R7, which requests the D irector-General to develop, in a consultative manner, a WHO global action plan the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases for 20132020 and decision WHA65(8) and its historic decision to adopt a global target of a 25% reduction in premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases by 2025; Reaffirming WHOs leading role as the primary specialized agency for health, including its roles and functions with regard to health policy inaccordance with its mandate, and reaffirming its leadership and coordination role in promoting and m onitoring global action against noncommunicable diseases in relation to the work of other relevant United Nations agencies, development banks and other regional and international organizations in a ddressing noncommunicable diseases in a coordinated manner; Recognizing the primary role and responsibility of governments in responding to the challenges of noncommunicable diseases; Recognizing also the important role of the international community and international cooperation in assisting Member States, particularly developing countries, in complementing national efforts to generate an effective response to noncommunicable diseases; Stressing the importance of NorthSouth, SouthSout hand triangular cooperation in the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, to promote at the national, regional and international levels an enabling environment to facilitate healthy lifestyles and choices, bearing in mind that SouthSouth cooperation is not a substitute for, but rather a complement to, NorthSouth cooperation; Noting that noncommunicable diseases are often associated with mental disorders and other conditions and that mental disorders often coexist with other medical and social factors as noted in WHA66.10 3 resolution WHA65.4 and that, therefore, the implementation of the WHO global action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 20132020 is expected tobe implemented coherently and inclose coordination with the WHO global mental health action plan 20132020 and other WHO action plans at all levels; Welcoming the overarching principles and approaches of the WHO global action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 20132020 and calling for their application in the implementation of all actions to prevent and control noncommunicable diseases; Recognizing that the United Nations Secretary-Gener al, in collaboration with Member States, WHO and relevant funds, programmes and specialized agencies of the United Nations system is to present to the United Nations General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session a report on the progress achieved in realizing the commitments made in the Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the United Nations General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases, in preparation fora comprehensive review and assessment in 2014 of the progress achieved in the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, 1. DECIDES: (1) to endorse the WHO global action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 20132020;2 (2) to adopt the comprehensive global monitoring framework for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, including the set of 2 5 indicators 3 capable of application across regional and country settings to monitor trends and to assess progress made in the implementation of national strategies and plans on noncommunicable diseases; (3) to adopt the set of nine voluntary global targe ts for achievement by 2025 for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases noting that the target related toa 25% relative reduction in overall mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases concerns premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases between ages 30 and 70, inaccordance with the corresponding indicator; 2. URGES Member States:4 (1) to continue to implement the Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the United Nations General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases, strengthening national efforts to address the burden of noncommunicable diseases, and continuing to implement the Moscow Declaration; (2) to implement, as appropriate, the action plan and to take the necessary steps to meet the objectives contained therein; 1As detailed in paragraph 18 of the Annex. 2 See Annex. 3 See Appendix 2 of the Annex. 4 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. WHA66.10 4 (3) to enhance the capacity, mechanisms and mandate s, as appropriate, of relevant authorities in facilitating and ensuring action across government sectors; (4) to accelerate implementation by Parties of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, including through adopted technical guidel ines; other countries to consider acceding to the Convention, aswell as to give high priority to the implementation of the Global Strategy on Diet, Physical Activity and Health endorsed in resolution WHA57.17, the global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol endorsed in resolution WHA63.13, and the recommendations on the marketing of foods and non-alcoholic beverag es to children endorsed in resolution WHA63.14, as being integral to making progress towards the voluntary global targets and realizing the commitments made in the Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the United Nations General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases; (5) to promote, establish, support and strengthen engagement or collaborative partnerships, as appropriate, including with non-health and non-Stat e actors, such as civil society and the private sector, at the national, subnational and / or local l evels for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, according to country circ umstances, with abroad multisectoral approach, while safeguarding public health interest s from undue influence by any form of real, perceived or potential conflict of interest; (6) to consider the development of national noncommunicable disease monitoring frameworks, with targets and indicators based on national situations, taking into consideration the comprehensive global monitoring framework, incl uding the 25 indicators anda set of nine voluntary global targets, building on guidance provided by WHO, to focus on efforts to prevent and address the impacts of noncommunicable diseases , to support scaling up effective noncommunicable disease actions and policies, inclu ding technical and financial aspects, and to assess the progress made in the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases and their risk factors and determinants; (7) to establish and strengthen, as appropriate, a national surveillance and monitoring system to enable reporting including against the 25 indica tors of the comprehensive global monitoring framework, the nine voluntary global targets, any additional regional or national targets and indicators for noncommunicable diseases; (8) to recommend that the United Nations Economic and Social Council, before the end of 2013, considers the proposal fora United Nations Task Force on Noncommunicable Diseases, which would coordinate the activities of the United Nations organizations in the implementation of the WHO global noncommunicable disease action plan which would be convened and led by WHO and report to ECOSOC, incorporating the work of the United Nations Ad Hoc Interagency Task Force on Tobacco Control while ens uring that tobacco control continues tobe duly addressed and prioritized in the new task force mandate; (9) to support the work of the Secretariat to prevent and control noncommunicable diseases, in particular through funding relevant work din the programme budgets; (10) to continue to explore the provision of adequa te, predictable and sustained resources, through domestic, bilateral, regional and multilateral channels, including traditional and voluntary innovative financing mechanisms and to in crease, as appropriate, resources for national programmes for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases; WHA66.10 5 3. REQUESTS the Director-General: (1) to submit the detailed and disaggregated information on resource requirements necessary to implement the actions for the Secretariat included in the global action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 20132020, including information on the financial implications of the establishment of a global coord ination mechanism for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, to the first f inancing dialogue convened by the Director-General and facilitated by the Chairman of the Programme, Budget and Administration Committee of the Executive Board, on the financing of the Programme budget 20142015, with a view to ensuring that all partners have clear information on the specific funding needs, available resources and funding shortfalls of the a ctions for the Secretariat included in the action plan at the projector activity level; (2) to develop draft terms of reference fora global coordination mechanism, as outlined in paragraphs 1415 of the WHO global action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 20132020, aimed at facili tating engagement among Member States, United Nations funds, programmes and agenci es, and other international partners and non-State actors, while safeguarding WHO and public health from undue influence by any form of real, perceived or potential conflicts of intere st, without pre-empting the results of ongoing WHO discussions on engagement with non-State actors ; (3) to develop the draft terms of reference referre d to in paragraph 5.2 through a formal Member States1 meeting in November 2013, preceded by consultation s with: (i) Member States including through regional committees; (ii) United Nations agencies, funds and programmes and other relevant intergovernmental organizations; (iii) nongovernmental organizations and private sector entities, as appropriate, and other relevant stakeholders; and tobe submitted, through the Executive Board, to the Sixty-seventh World Health Assembly for approval; (4) to develop, in consultation with Member States and other relevant partners, a limited set of action plan indicators to inform reporting on pr ogress, which build on the work underway at regional and country levels, are based on feasibili ty, current availability of data, best available knowledge and evidence, are capable of application across the six objectives of the action plan, and minimize the reporting burden on Member States to assess progress made in 2016, 2018 and 2021 in the implementation of policy options Member States, recommended actions for international partners, and actions for the Secretariat included in the action plan, and to submit the draft set of action plan indicators, through the Executive Board, to the Sixty-seventh World Health Assembly for approval; (5) to work together with other United Nations fund s, programmes and agencies to conclude the work, before the end of October 2013, ona division of tasks and responsibilities for United Nations funds, programmes and agencies and other international organizations; 1 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. WHA66.10 6 (6) to provide technical support to Member States, as required, to support the implementation of the WHO global action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 20132020; (7) to provide technical support to Member States, as required, to establish or strengthen national surveillance and monitoring systems for noncommunicable diseases to support reporting under the global monitoring framework for noncommunicable diseases; (8) to provide technical support to Member States, as required, to engage / cooperate with non-health government sectors and, inaccordance with principles for engagement, with non-State actors in the prevention and control of noncommunicable d iseases; (9) to submit reports on progress made in implement ing the action plan, through the Executive Board, to the Health Assembly in 2016, 20 18 and 2021 and reports on progress achieved in attaining the nine voluntary global tar gets in 2016, 2021 and 2026; (10) to propose an update of Appendix 3 of the WHO global action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 20132020, as a ppropriate, tobe considered, through the Executive Board, by the World Health Assembly, in the light of new scientific evidence and to continue to update, as appropriate, Appendix 4 the Annex. 1 Without prejudice to ongoing discussions on WHO engagement with non-State actors. 2 The progress reports in 2018 and 2021 should include the outcomes of independent evaluation of the implementation of the global action plan conducted in 2017 and 2020. WHA66.10 7 ANNEX GLOBAL ACTION PLAN FOR THE PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF NONCOMMUNICABLE DISEASES 20132020 Overview Vision: A world free of the avoidable burden of noncommunicable diseases. Goal: To reduce the preventable and avoidable burden of m orbidity, mortality and disability due to noncommunicable diseases by means of multisectoral collaboration and cooperation at national, regional and global levels, so that populations reach the highest attainable standards of health and productivity at every age and those diseases are no longer a barrier to well-being or socioeconomic development. Overarching principles: Life-course approach Empowerment of people and communities Evidence-based strategies Universal health coverage Management of real, perceived or potential conflicts of interest Human rights approach Equity-based approach National action and international cooperation and solidarity Multisectoral action Objectives 1. To raise the priority accorded to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases in global, regional and national agendas and internationally agreed development goals, through strengthened international cooperation and advocacy. 2. To strengthen national capacity, leadership, gov ernance, multisectoral action and partnerships accelerate country response for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. 3. To reduce modifiable risk factors for noncommunicable diseases and underlying social determinants through creation of health-promoting environments. 4. To strengthen and orient health systems to address the prevention and control of noncommunicable di seases and the underlying social determinants through people-c entred primary health care and universal health cov erage. 5. To promote and support national capacity for hig h-quality research and development for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. 6. To monitor the trends and determinants of noncommunicable diseases and evaluate progress in their prevention and control. Voluntary global targets (1) A 25% relative reduction in the overall mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, or chronic respiratory diseases (2) At least 10% relative reduction in the harmful use of alcohol, as appropriate, within the national context (3) A 10% relative reduction in prevalence of insufficient physical activity (4) A 30% relative reduction in mean population intake of salt / sodium (5) A 30% relative reduction in prevalence of current tobacco use in persons aged 15+ years (6) A 25% relative reduction in the prevalence of raised blood pressure or contain the prevalence of raised blood pressure, according to national circumstances (7) Halt the rise in diabetes and obesity (8) At least 50% of eligible people receive drug therapy and counselling (including glycaemic control) to prevent heart attacks and strokes (9) An 80% availability of the affordable basic tec hnologies and essential medicines, including generi cs, required to treat major noncommunicable diseases in both public and private facilities WHA66.10 Annex 8 Background 1. The global burden and threat of noncommunicable dis eases constitutes a major public health challenge that undermines social and economic development throughout the world. Strong leadership and urgent action are required at the global, regional and national levels to mitigate them, which inter alia has the effect of increasing inequalitie s between countries and within populations. 2. An estimated 36 million deaths, or 63% of the 57 million deaths that occurred globally in 2008, were due to noncommunicable diseases, comprising mainly cardiovascular diseases (48% of noncommunicable diseases), cancers (21%), chronic respiratory diseases (12%) and diabetes (3.5%).1 These major noncommunicable diseases share four beh avioural risk factors: tobacco use, unhealthy diet, physical inactivity and harmful use of alcoho l. In 2008, 80% of all deaths (29 million) from noncommunicable diseases occurred in low- and middl e-income countries, anda higher proportion (48%) of the deaths in the latter countries are premature (under the age of 70) compared to high-income countries (26%). Although morbidity and mortality from noncommunicable diseases mainly occur in adulthood, exposure to risk factors begins in early life. Children can die from treatable noncommunicable diseases, such as rheumatic heart d isease, type 1 diabetes, asthma, and leukaemia, if health promotion, disease prevention, and comprehensive care are not provided. According to WHOs projections, the total annual number of deaths from noncommunicable diseases will increase to 55 million by 2030, if business as usual continue s. Scientific knowledge demonstrates that the noncommunicable disease burden can be greatly reduced if cost-effective preventive and curative actions and interventions for prevention and lof noncommunicable diseases already available, are implemented in an effective and balanced manner . Aim 3. As requested by the World Health Assembly in resolution WHA64.11, the Secretariat has developed a global action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases for the period 20132020, building on what has already been achieved through the implementation of the 20082013 action plan. Its aim is to operationalize the commitments of the Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases.3 Process 4. The global and regional consultation process to develop the action plan engaged WHO Member States, relevant United Nations system agencies, funds and programmes, international financial institutions, development banks and other key international organizations, health professionals, academia, civil society and the private sector through regional meetings organized by the six WHO regional offices, four web consultations which received 325 written submissions, three informal consultations with Member States and two informal d ialogues with relevant nongovernmental organizations and selected private sector entities. 1 e / cod_2008_sources_methods.pdf. 2 Global Status Report on noncommunicable diseases 20 10 , Geneva, World Health Organization, 2010. 3 United Nations General Assembly resolution 66 / 2 (h ttp: / / www.who.int / nmh / events / un_ncd_summit2011 / political_declaration_en.pdf). Annex WHA66.10 9 Scope 5. The action plan provides a road map anda menu of policy options for all Member States and other stakeholders, to take coordinated and coherent action, at all levels, local to global, to attain the nine voluntary global targets, including that of a 25% relative reduction in premature mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases by 2025. 6. The main focus of this action plan is on four types of noncommunicable disease cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes which make the largest contribution to morbidity and mortality due to noncommunicable diseases, and on four shared behavioural risk factors tobacco use, unhealthy d iet, physical inactivity and harmful use of alcohol . It recognizes that the conditions in which people live and work and their lifestyles influence their health and quality of life. There are many other conditions of public health importance that are closely associated with the four major noncommunicable dise ases. They include: (i) other noncommunicable diseases (renal, endocrine, neurological, haematolo gical, gastroenterological, hepatic, musculoskeleta l, skin and oral diseases, and genetic disorders); (ii ) mental disorders; (iii) disabilities, including blindness and deafness; and (iv) violence and injur ies (Appendix 1). Noncommunicable diseases and their risk factors also have strategic links to health systems and universal health coverage, environmental, occupational and social determinants of health, communicable diseases, maternal, child and adolescent health, reproductive health and ageing. Despite the close links, one action plan to address all of them inequal detail would be unwiel dy. Further, some of these conditions are the subject of other WHO strategies and action plans or Health Assembly resolutions. Appendix 1 outlines potential synergies and linkages between major noncommunicable diseases and lists some of the interrelated conditions, to emphasize opportunities for collaboration so as to maximize efficiencies for mutual benefit. Linking the action plan in this manner also reflects WHOs responsiveness to the organizations reform agenda as it relates to working in a more cohesive and integrated manner. 7. Using current scientific knowledge, available evidence anda review of experience on prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, the action plan proposes a menu of policy options for Member States, international partners and the Secretariat, under six interconnected and mutually reinforcing objectives involving: (i) international cooperation and advocacy; (ii) country-le d multisectoral response; (iii) risk factors and dete rminants; (iv) health systems and universal health coverage; (v) research, development and innovation; and (vi) surveillance and monitoring. Monitoring of the action plan 8. The global monitoring framework, including 25 indic ators anda set of nine voluntary global targets (see Appendix 2), will track the implementation of the action plan through monitoring and reporting on the attainment of the voluntary global targets in 2015 and 2020. The action plan is not limited in scope to the global monitoring framework . The indicators of the global monitoring framework and the voluntary global targets provide overall direction and the action plan provides a road map for reaching the targets. Relationship to the calls made upon WHO and its exi sting strategies, reform and plans 9. Since the adoption of the global strategy for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases in 2000, several Health Assembly resolutio ns have been adopted or endorsed in support of the key components of the global strategy. This action plan builds on the implementation of those resolutions, mutually reinforcing them. They include the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC) (resolution WHA56.1), the Global strategy on diet, physical activity and health WHA66.10 Annex 10 (resolution WHA57.17), the Global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol (resolution WHA63.13), Sustainable health financing structures and universal coverage (resolution WHA64.9) and the Global strategy and plan of action on public health, innovation and intellectual property (resolution WHA61.21). Also relevant are the Outcome of the World Conference on Social Determinants of Health (resolution WHA65.8) and the Moscow Declaration of the First Global Ministerial Conference on Healthy Lifestyles and Noncommunicable Disease Control (resolution WHA64.11). The action plan also provide sa framework to support and strengthen implementation of existing regional resolutions, fr ameworks, strategies and plans on prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases including AFR / R C62 / WP / 7, CSP28.R13, EMR / CR59 / R2, EUR / RC61 / R3, SEA / RC65 / R5, WPR / RC62.R2. It has close conceptual and strategic links to the comprehensive mental health action plan 20132020 1 and the action plan for the prevention of avoidable blindness and visual impairment 20142019 which will be considered by the Sixty-sixth World Health Assembly. The action plan will also be guided by WHOs twelfth general programme of work (20142019).3 10. The action plan is consistent with WHOs reform age nda, which requires the Organization to engage an increasing number of public health actors , including foundations, civil society organizations, partnerships and the private sector, inwork related to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. The roles and responsibil ities of the three levels of the Secretariat country offices, regional offices and headquarters in the implementation of the action plan will be reflected in the organization-wide workplans setout in WHO programme budgets. 11. Over the 20132020 time period other plans with close linkages to noncommunicable diseases (such as the action plan on disability called for in resolution EB132.R5) maybe developed and will need tobe synchronized with this action plan. Furt her, flexibility is required for updating Appendix 3 of this action plan periodically in light of new scientific evidence. Flexibility will also be needed for reorienting parts of the action plan, as appropriat e, through the governing bodies, in response to the post-2015 United Nations development agenda. Cost of action versus inaction 12. For all countries, the cost of inaction far outweig hs the cost of taking action on noncommunicable diseases as recommended in this action plan. There are interventions for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases which give a good return on investment, generating one year of healthy life fora cost that falls below the gross domestic product (GDP) per person and are affordable for all countries 4 (see Appendix 3). The total cost of implementing a combination of very cost-effective population-wide and individual interventions, in te rms of current health spending, amounts to 4% in low-income countries, 2% in lower middle-income cou ntries and less than 1% in upper middle-income and high-income countries. The cost of implementing the action plan by the Secretariat is estimated at US$ 940.26 million for the eight-year period 20132 020. The above estimates for implementation of the action plan should be viewed against the cost of in action. Continuing business as usual will result in loss of productivity and an escalation of health care costs in all countries. The cumulative output loss due to the four major noncommunicable diseases together with mental disorders is estimated tobe 1 8-en.pdf. 2 9-en.pdf. 3 26-en.pdf. 4 Scaling up action against noncommunicable disease: how much will it cost? Geneva, World Health Organi zation, 2011 9241502313_eng.pdf. Annex WHA66.10 11 US$ 47 trillion. This loss represents 75% of global GDP in 2010 (US$ 63 trillion).1 This action plan should also beseen as an investment prospect, because it provides direction and opportunities for all countries to (i) safeguard the health and productivity of populations and economies; (ii) make informed decisions and choices related to, inter alia, food, media, information and communication technolo gy, sports and health insurance; and (iii) identify the potential for new, replicable and scalable innovat ions that can be applied globally to reduce burgeoning health care costs in all countries. Adaptation of framework to regional and national co ntexts 13. The framework provided in this action plan needs tobe adapted at the regional and national levels, taking into account region-specific situati ons and inaccordance with national legislation and priorities and specific national circumstances. reis no single formulation of an action plan that fits all countries, as they are at different points in their progress in the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases and at different levels of socioeconomic development. However, all countries can benefit from the comprehensive response to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases presented in this action p lan. There are cost-effective interventions and policy options across the six objectives (see Appendix 3), which, if implemented to scale, would enable all countries to make significant progress in attaining the nine voluntary global targets by 20 25 (see Appendix 2). The exact manner in which sustainable national scale-up can be undertaken varies by country, being affected by each countrys level of socioeconomic development, degree of enabling political and legal climate, characteristics of the noncommunicable disease burden, competing national public health priorities, budgetary allocations for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, degree of universality of health coverage and health system strengthening, type of health system (e.g. centralized or decentralized) and national capacity. Global coordination mechanism 14. The Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases reaffirms the leadership and coordination role of the World Health Organization in promoting and monitori ng global action against noncommunicable diseases in relation to the work of other relevant United Nations system agencies, development banks and other regional and international organizations. In consultation with Member States, the WHO Secretariat plans to develop a global mechanism to coordinate the activities of the United Nations system and promote engagement, international cooper ation, collaboration and accountability among all stakeholders. 15. The purpose of the proposed global mechanism is to improve coordination of activities which address functional gaps that are barriers to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. The global coordination mechanism is tobe develope d based on the following parameters: The mechanism shall be convened, hosted and led by WHO and report to the WHO governing bodies. The primary role and responsibility for preventing and controlling noncommunicable diseases lie with governments, while efforts and engagement of all sectors of society, international collaboration and cooperation are essential for success. 1 The global economic burden of noncommunicable disea ses . World Economic Forum and Harvard School of Public Health, 2011. WHA66.10 Annex 12 The global mechanism will facilitate engagement among Member States United Nations funds, programmes and agencies, and other international partners and non-State actors while safeguarding WHO and public health from any form of real, perceived or potential conflicts of interest. The engagement with non-State Actors 3 will follow the relevant rules currently being negotiated as part of WHO reform and tobe consider ed, through the Executive Board, by the Sixty-seventh World Health Assembly. Vision 16. A world free of the avoidable burden of noncommunicable diseases. Goal 17. To reduce the preventable and avoidable burden of m orbidity, mortality and disability due to noncommunicable diseases by means of multisectoral collaboration and cooperation at national, regional and global levels, so that populations reach the highest attainable standards of health, quality of life, and productivity at every age and those diseases are no longer a barrier to well-being or socioeconomic development. Overarching principles and approaches 18. The action plan relies on the following overarching principles and approaches: Human rights approach: It should be recognized that the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being, without distinction of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status, as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.4 Equity-based approach: It should be recognized that the unequal burden of noncommunicable diseases is influenced by the social determinants of health, and that action on these determinants, both for vulnerable groups and the entire population, is essential to reduce the overall burden of noncommunicable diseas es and create inclusive, equitable, economically productive and healthy societies. National action and international cooperation and s olidarity: The primary role and responsibility of governments in responding to the challenge of noncommunicable diseases 1 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. 2 Without prejudice to ongoing discussions on WHO engagement with non-State actors, international partn ers are defined for this purpose as public health agencies with an international mandate, international development agencies, intergovernmental organizations including other United Nations organizations and global health initiat ives, international financial institutions including the World Bank, fo undations, and nongovernmental organizations. 3 Non-State actors include academia and relevant nongovernmental organizations, aswell as selected private sector entities, as appropriate, excluding the tobacco ind ustry, and including those that are demonstrably co mmitted to promoting public health and are willing to participate in public reporting and accountability frameworks. 4 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights ww.un.org / en / documents / udhr / index.shtml. Annex WHA66.10 13 should be recognized, together with the important role of international cooperation in assisting Member States, as a complement to national efforts. Multisectoral action: It should be recognized that effective noncommunicable disease prevention and control require leadership, coordina ted multistakeholder engagement and multisectoral action for health both at government level and at the level of awide range of actors, with such engagement and action including, as appropriate, health-in-all-policies and whole-of-government approaches across sectors such as health, agriculture, communication, education, employment, energy, environment, finance , food, foreign affairs, housing, justice and security, legislature, social welfare, social and economic development, sports, tax and revenue, trade and industry, transport, urban plann ing and youth affairs and partnership with relevant civil society and private sector entities. Life-course approach: Opportunities to prevent and control noncommunicable diseases occur at multiple stages of life; interventions in early life often offer the best chance for primary prevention. Policies, plans and services for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases need to take account of health and social needs at all stages of the life-course, starting with maternal health, includi ng preconception, antenatal and postnatal care, maternal nutrition and reducing environmental exposures to risk factors, and continuing through proper infant feeding practices, including promotion of breastfeeding and health promotion for children, adolescents and youth follo wed by promotion of a healthy working life, healthy ageing and care for people with noncommunicable diseases in later life. Empowerment of people and communities: People and communities should be empowered and involved in activities for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, including advocacy, policy, planning, legislation, service provision, education and training, monitoring, research and evaluation. Evidence-based strategies: Strategies and practices for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases need tobe based on scientific evidence and / or best practice, cost-effectiveness, affordability and public health principles, taking cultural considerations into account. Universal health coverage: All people should have access, without discriminat ion, to nationally determined sets of the needed promotive, preventive, curative and rehabilitative and palliative basic health services and essential, safe, affordable, effective and quality medicines and diagnostics. At the same time it must be ensured that the use of these services does not expose the users to financial hardship, tha special emphasis on the poor and populations living invulnerable situations. Management of real, perceived or potential conflict s of interest: Multiple actors, both State and non-State actors including civil society, academia, industry, nongovernmental and professional organizations, need tobe engaged for noncommunicable diseases tobe tackled effectively. Public health policies for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases must be protected from undue influence by any form of vested interest. Real, perceived or potential conflicts of interest must be acknowledged and managed. WHA66.10 Annex 14 Objective 1. To raise the priority accorded to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases in global, regional and national agendas and internationally agreed development goals, through strengthened international cooperation and advocacy 19. The Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases, the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development1 (Rio+20) and the first report of the UN System Task Team on the Post-2015 UN Development Agenda 2 have acknowledged that addressing noncommunicable diseases is apriority for social development and investment in people. Better health outcomes from noncommunicable diseases is a precondition for, an outcome of and an indicator of all three dimensions of sustainable development: economic dev elopment, environmental sustainability, and social inclusion. 20. Advocacy and international cooperation are vital for resource mobilization, capacity strengthening and advancing the political commitment and momentum generated by the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases. Actions listed under this objective are aimed at cr eating enabling environments at the global, land country levels for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. The desired outcomes of this objective are strengthened international co operation, stronger advocacy, enhanced resources, improved capacity and creation of enabling environm ents to attain the nine voluntary global targets (see Appendix 2). Policy options for Member States 3 21. It is proposed that, inaccordance with their legis lation, and as appropriate in view of their specific circumstances, Member States may select and undertake actions from among the policy options setout below. (a) Advocacy: Generate actionable evidence and disseminate information about the effectiveness of interventions or policies to intervene positively on linkages between noncommunicable diseases and sustainable developmen t, including other related issues such as poverty alleviation, economic development, the Millennium Development Goals, sustainable cities, non-toxic environment, food security, climate change, disaster preparedness, peace and security and gender equality, based on national sit uations. (b) Broader health and development agenda: Promote universal health coverage as a means of prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, and its inclusion as akey element in the internationally agreed development g oals; integrate the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases into national health-plann ing processes and broader development agendas, according to country context and prioritie s, and where relevant mobilize the United Nations Country Teams to strengthen the links among noncommunicable diseases, universal health coverage and sustainable development, integr ating them into the United Nations Development Assistance Frameworks design processes and implementation. 1 United Nations General Assembly resolution 66 / 288. 2 www.un.org / millenniumgoals / pdf / Post_2015_UNTTrepor t.pdf. 3 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. Annex WHA66.10 15 (c) Partnerships: Forge multisectoral partnerships as appropriate, to promote cooperation at all levels among governmental agencies, intergovernmental organizations, nongovernmental organizations, civil society and the private sector to strengthen efforts for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. Actions for the Secretariat 22. The following actions are envisaged for the Secreta riat: (a) Leading and convening: Facilitate coordination, collaboration and coopera tion among the main stakeholders including Member States, United Nations funds, programmes and agencies (see Appendix 4), civil society and the private sector, as appropriate, guided by the Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the WHO Director-General on options for strengthening and facilitating multisectoral action for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases through effective partnership including the strengthening of regional coordinating mechanisms and establishment of a United Nations task force on noncommunicable diseases for implementation of the action plan. (b) Technical cooperation: Offer technical assistance and strengthen global, regional and national capacity to raise public awareness about the links between noncommunicable diseases and sustainable development, to integrate the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases into national health-planning processes and development agendas, the United Nations Development Assistance Framework and poverty-allevi ation strategies. (c) Provision of policy advice and dialogue: This will include: Addressing the interrelationships between the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases and initiatives on poverty alleviation and sustainable development in order to promote policy coherence. Strengthening governance, including management of r eal, perceived or potential conflicts of interest, in engaging non-State actors in collaborative partnerships for implementation of the action plan, inaccordance with the new principles and policies being developed as part of WHO reform. Increasing revenues for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases through domestic resource mobilization, and improve budgetary allocations particularly for strengthening of primary health care systems and provision of universal health coverage. Also consideration of economic tools, where justified by evidence, which may include taxes and subsidies, that create incent ives for behaviours associated with improved health outcomes, as appropriate within the national context. (d) Dissemination of best practices: Promote and facilitate international and intercoun try collaboration for exchange of best practices in the areas of health-in-all policies, whole-of-government and whole-of-society approaches , legislation, regulation, health system strengthening and training of health personnel, so as to disseminate learning from the experiences of Member States in meeting the challen ges. 1 (a ccessed 22 April 2013). WHA66.10 Annex 16 Proposed actions for international partners and the private sector 23. Without prejudice to ongoing discussions on WHO engagement with non-State actors, international partners are defined for this purpose as public health agencies with an international mandate, international development agencies, intergovernmental organizations including other United Nations organizations and global health initiatives , International financial institutions including the World Bank, foundations, and nongovernmental organi zations and selected private sector entities that commit to the objectives of the action plan and inc luding those that are demonstrably committed to promoting public health and are willing to participate in public reporting and accountability frameworks. Proposed actions include: (a) Encouraging the continued inclusion of noncommunicable diseases in development cooperation agendas and initiatives, internationall y-agreed development goals, economic development policies, sustainable development frame works and poverty-reduction strategies. (b) Strengthening advocacy to sustain the interest of Heads of State and Government in implementation of the commitments of the Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases, for instance by strengthening capacity at global, regional and national levels, involving all relevant sectors, civil society and communities, as appropriate within the national context, with the full and active participation of people living with these diseases. (c) Strengthening international cooperation within the framework of NorthSouth, SouthSouth and triangular cooperation, in the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases to: Promote at the national, regional and international levels an enabling environment to facilitate healthy lifestyles and choices. Support national efforts for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, inter alia, through exchange of information on best practices and dissemination of research findings in the areas of health promotion, legislation, regulation, monitoring and evaluation and health systems strengthening, building of institutional capacity, training of health personnel, and development of appropriate health care infrastructure. Promote the development and dissemination of approp riate, affordable and sustainable transfer of technology on mutually agreed terms for the production of affordable, safe, effective and quality medicines and vaccines, diagnostics and medical technologies, the creation of information and electronic communication technologies (eHealth) and the use of mobile and wireless devices (mHealth). Strengthen existing alliances and initiatives and forge new collaborative partnerships as appropriate, to strengthen capacity for adaptati on, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the action plan for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases at global, regional and national levels. (d) Support the coordinating role of WHO in areas where stakeholders including nongovernmental organizations, professional associa tions, academia, research institutions and the private sector can contribute and take concerted action against noncommunicable diseases. Annex WHA66.10 17 (e) Support the informal collaborative arrangement among United Nations agencies, convened by WHO for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. (f) Fulfil the official development assistance comm itment.1 Objective 2. To strengthen national capacity, leade rship, governance, multisectoral action and partnerships to accelerate country response for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 24. As the ultimate guardians of a populations health, governments have the lead responsibility for ensuring that appropriate institutional, legal, financial and service arrangements are provided the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. 25. Noncommunicable diseases undermine the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and are contributory to poverty and hunger. Strateg ies to address noncommunicable diseases need to deal with health inequities which arise from the societal conditions in which people are born, grow, live and work and to mitigate barriers to childhood development, education, economic status, employment, housing and environment. Upstream policy and multisectoral action to address these social determinants of health will be critical for achieving sustained progress in prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. 26. Universal health coverage, people-centred primary health care and social protection mechanisms are important tools to protect people from financial hardship related to noncommunicable diseases and to provide access to health services for all, in particular for the poorest segments the population. Universal health coverage needs established and / or strengthened at the country level , to support the sustainable prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. 27. Effective noncommunicable disease prevention and control require multisectoral approaches at the government level, including, as appropriate, a whole-of-government, whole-of-society and health-in-all policies approach across such sectors as health, agriculture, communication, customs / revenue, education, employment / labour, ener gy, environment, finance, food, foreign affairs, housing, industry, justice / security, legislature, social welfare, social and economic development, sports, trade, transport, urban planning and youth affairs (Appendix 5). Approaches tobe considered to implement multisectoral action could include, inter alia, (i) self-assessment of Ministry of Health, (ii) assessment of other sectors required for multi sectoral action, (iii) analyses of areas which require multisectoral action, (iv) development of engagement plans, (v) use of a framework to foster common understanding between sectors, (vi) strengthening of governance structures, political will and accountability mechanisms, (vii) enhancement of community participation, (viii) adoption of other good practices to foster intersectoral action and ( ix) monitoring and evaluation. 28. An effective national response for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases requires multistakeholder engagement, to include individuals , families and communities, intergovernmental organizations, religious institutions, civil societ y, academia, the media, policy-makers, voluntary associations and, where appropriate, traditional medicine practitioners the private sector and industry. The active participation of civil society in effort s to address noncommunicable diseases, particularly the participation of grass-roots organizations represen ting people living with noncommunicable diseases and their carers, can empower society and improve accountability of public health policies, legislation and 1 Document A / 8124 available at .un.org / doc / RESOLUTION / GEN / NR0 / 348 / 91 / IMG / NR034891.pdf. WHA66.10 Annex 18 services, making them acceptable, responsive to needs and supportive in assisting individuals to reach the highest attainable standard of health and well- being. Member States can also promote change to improve social and physical environments and enable progress against noncommunicable diseases including through constructive engagement with relevant private sector actors. 29. The desired outcomes of this objective are strength ened stewardship and leadership, increased resources, improved capacity and creation of enabli ng environments for forging a collaborative multisectoral response at national level, in order to attain the nine voluntary global targets (see Appendix 2). Policy options for Member States 1 30. It is proposed that, inaccordance with their legis lation, and as appropriate in view of their specific circumstances, Member States may select and undertake actions from among the policy options setout below. (a) Enhance governance: Integrate the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases into health-planning processes and development plan s, with special attention to social determinants of health, gender equity and the health needs of people living invulnerable situations, including indigenous peoples, migrant p opulations and people with mental and psychosocial disabilities. (b) Mobilize sustained resources: As appropriate to national context, and in coordination with the relevant organizations and mi nistries, including the Ministry of Finance Strengthen the provision of adequate, predictable and sustained resources for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases and for universal health coverage, through an increase in domestic budgetary allocations, voluntary innovative financing mechanisms and other means, including multilateral financing, bilateral sources and private sector and / or nongovernmental s ources, and Improve efficiency of resource utilization includin g through synergy of action, integrated approaches and shared planning across se ctors. (c) Strengthen national noncommunicable diseases progr ammes: Strengthen programmes for the prevention and control of noncommunicable d iseases with suitable expertise, resources and responsibility for needs assessment, strategic planning, policy development, legislative action, multisectoral coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. (d) Conduct needs assessment and evaluation: Conduct periodic assessments of epidemiological and resource needs, including workf orce, institutional and research capacity; of the health impact of policies in sectors beyond health (e.g. agriculture, communication, education, employment, energy, environment, finance , industry and trade, justice, labour, sports, transport and urban planning) and of the impact of financial, social and economic policies on noncommunicable diseases, in order to inform country action. 1 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. Annex WHA66.10 19 (e) Develop national plan and allocate budget: As appropriate to national context, develop and implement a national multisectoral noncommunicable disease policy and plan; and taking into account national priorities and domestic circu mstances, in coordination with the relevant organizations and ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, increase and prioritize budgetary allocations for addressing surveillance, prevention, early detection and treatment of noncommunicable diseases and related care and suppo rt, including palliative care. (f) Strengthen multisectoral action: As appropriate to the national context, setup a national multisectoral mechanism high-level commi ssion, agency or task force for engagement, policy coherence and mutual accountability of different spheres of policy-making that have a bearing on noncommunicable diseases, in order to implement health-in-all-policies and whole-of-government and whole-of-society approa ches, to convene multistakeholder working groups, to secure budgetary allocations for implementing and evaluating multisectoral action and to monitor and acton the social and environmental determinants of noncommunicable diseases (see Appendix 5). (g) Improve accountability: Improve accountability for implementation by assuring adequate surveillance, monitoring and evaluation ca pacity, and by setting up a monitoring framework with national targets and indicators consistent with the global monitoring framework and options for applying it at the country level. (h) Strengthen institutional capacity and the workforc e: Provide training and appropriately deploy health, social services and community workforce, and strengthen institutional capacity for implementing the national action plan, for example by including prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases in the teaching curricula for medical, nursing and allied health personnel, providing training and orientation to personnel in other sectors and by establishing public health instituti ons to deal with the complexity of issues relating to noncommunicable diseases (including such factors as multisectoral action, advertising, human behaviour, health economics, dand agricultural systems, law, business management, psychology, trade, commercial influence including advertising of unhealthy commodities to children and limitations of industry self-regulation, urban planning, training in prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, integrated primary care approaches and health promotion). (i) Forge partnerships: Lead collaborative partnerships to address implementation gaps (e.g. in the areas of community engagement, training of health personnel, development of appropriate health care infrastructure, and sustainable transfer of technology on mutually agreed terms for the production of affordable, quality, safe and efficacious medicines, including generics, vaccines and diagnostics, aswell as for product access and procurement), as appropriate to national contexts . (j) Empower communities and people: Facilitate social mobilization, engaging and empowering abroad range of actors, including women as change-agents in families and communities, to promote dialogue, catalyse societal change and shape a systematic society-wide national response to address noncommunicable diseas es, their social, environmental and economic determinants and health equity (e.g. through engaging human rights organizations, faith-based organizations, labour organizations, or ganizations focused on children, adolescents, youth, adults, elderly, women, patients and people with disabilities, indigenous peoples, intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizations , civil society, academia, media and the private sector). WHA66.10 Annex 20 Actions for the Secretariat 31. The following actions are envisaged for the Secreta riat: (a) Leading and convening: Mobilize the United Nations system to work as one within the scope of bodies respective mandates, based on agreed division of labour, and synergize the efforts of different United Nations organizations asper established informal collaborative arrangement among United Nations agencies in order to provide additional support to Member States. (b) Technical cooperation: Provide support to countries in evaluating and imp lementing evidence-based options that suit their needs and ca pacities and in assessing the health impact of public policies, including on trade, management of conflicts of interest and maximizing of intersectoral synergies for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases (see Appendix 1) across programmes for environmental hea lth, occupational health, and for addressing noncommunicable diseases during disaster sand emergencies. Such support tobe given by establishing / strengthening national reference centres, WHO collaborating centres and knowledge-sharing networks. (c) Policy guidance and dialogue: Provide guidance for countries in developing partnerships for multisectoral action to address functional gaps in the response for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, guided by the Note of the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Director-General, in particular addressing the gaps identified in that report, including advocacy, awareness-raising, accountability including management of real, perceived or potential conflicts of interest at the national level, financing and resource mobilization, capacity strengthening, technical sup port, product access, market shaping and product development and innovation. (d) Knowledge generation: Develop, where appropriate, technical tools, decision support tools and information products for implementation of cost-effective interventions, for assessing the potential impact of policy choices on equity don social determinants of health, for monitoring multisectoral action for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, for managing conflicts of interest and for communic ation, including through social media, tailored to the capacity and resource availability of countries. (e) Capacity strengthening: Develop a One-WHO workplan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases to ensure synergy and alignment of activi ties across the three levels of WHO, based on country needs. Strengthen the capacity of the Secretariat at all l evels to assist Member States to implement the action plan, recognizing the key role played by WHO Country Offices working directly with relevant national Ministries, agencies and nongovernmental organizations. Facilitate and support capacity assessment surveys of Member States to identify needs and tailor the provision of support from the Secretariat and other agencies. Annex WHA66.10 21 Proposed actions for international partners 32. Strengthen international cooperation within the framework of NorthSouth, SouthSouth and triangular cooperation, and forge collaborative par tnerships as appropriate, to: (a) Support national authorities in implementing ev idence-based multisectoral action (see Appendix 5), to address functional gaps in the response to noncommunicable diseases (e.g. in the areas of advocacy, strengthening of health work force and institutional capacity, capacity building, product development, access and innovatio n), in implementing existing international conventions in the areas of environment and labour and in strengthening health financing for universal health coverage. (b) Promote capacity-building of relevant nongovernmental organizations at the national, regional and global levels, in order to realize their full potential as partners in the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. (c) Facilitate the mobilization of adequate, predictable and sustained financial resources and the necessary human and technical resources to support the implementation of national action plans and the monitoring and evaluation of progress . (d) Enhance the quality of aid for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases by strengthening national ownership, alignment, harmon ization, predictability, mutual accountability and transparency, and results orient ation. (e) Support social mobilization to implement the action plan and to promote equity in relation to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases including through creating and strengthening associations of people with those diseases aswell as supporting families and carers, and facilitate dialogue among those groups, health workers and government authorities in health and relevant outside sectors such as the human rights, education, employment, judicial and social sectors. (f) Support national plans for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases through the exchange of best practices and by promo ting the development and dissemination of appropriate, affordable and sustainable transfer of technology on mutually agreed terms. (g) Support countries and the Secretariat in implem enting other actions setout in this objective. Objective 3. To reduce modifiable risk factors for noncommunicable diseases and underlying social determinants through creation of health-prom oting environments 33. The Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases recognizes the critical importance of reducing the level of exposure of individuals and populations to the common modifiable risk factors for noncommunicable diseases, while strengthening the capacity of indiv iduals and populations to make healthier choices and follow lifestyle patterns that foster good heal th. While deaths from noncommunicable diseases mainly occur in adulthood, exposure to risk factors begins in childhood and builds up throughout life, underpinning the importance of legislative and regulatory measures, as appropriate, and health WHA66.10 Annex 22 promotion interventions that engage State and non-S tate actors 1 from within and outside the health sectors, to prevent tobacco use, physical inactivity, unhealthy diet, obesity and harmful use of alcohol and to protect children from adverse impacts of mar keting. 34. Governments should be the key stakeholders in the development of a national policy framework for promoting health and reducing risk factors. At the same time, it must be recognized that the effectiveness of multisectoral action requires allocation of defined roles toother stakeholders, protection of the public interest and avoidance of any undue influence from conflicts of interest. Further, supportive environments that protect physical and mental health and promote healthy behaviour need tobe created through multisectoral action (see Appendix 5), using incentives and disincentives, regulatory and fiscal measures, laws and other policy options, and health education, as appropriate within the national context, with a special focus on maternal health (including preconception, antenatal and postnatal care, and maternal nutrition), children, adolescents and youth, including prevention of childhood obesity (See Appendix 1). 35. The effective implementation of actions listed under this objective will enable countries to contribute to voluntary global targets related risk factors, aswell as to the premature mortality target. It is proposed that, inaccordance with their nations legislative, religious and cultural con texts, and inaccordance with constitutional principles and international legal obligations, Member States may select and undertake actions from among the policy options setout below. Policy options for Member States:2 tobacco control 36. The proposed policy options aim to contribute to ac hieving the voluntary global target of a 30% relative reduction in prevalence of current tobacco use in persons aged 15 or older. They include: (a) Accelerate full implementation of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC). Member States that have not yet become party to the WHO FCTC should consider action to ratify, accept, approve, formally confirmor accede toit at the earliest opportunity, inaccordance with resolution WHA56.1 and the Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-Communicable Diseases. (b) In order to reduce tobacco use and exposure to tobacco smoke, utilize the guidelines adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control for implementation of the following measure s as part of a comprehensive multisectoral package: Protect tobacco control policies from commercial and other vested interests of the tobacco industry inaccordance with national law, consistent with Article 5.3 of the WHO FCTC. Legislate for 100% tobacco smoke-free environments in all indoor workplaces, public transport, indoor public places and, as appropriate , other public places, consistent with Article 8 (Protection from exposure to tobacco smok e) of the WHO FCTC. 1 Non-State actors include academia and relevant nongovernmental organizations, aswell as selected private sector entities, as appropriate, excluding the tobacco ind ustry, and including those that are demonstrably co mmitted to promoting public health and are willing to participate in public reporting and accountability frameworks. 2 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. Annex WHA66.10 23 Warn people about the dangers of tobacco use, inclu ding through evidence-based hard-hitting mass-media campaigns and large, clear, visible and legible health warnings, consistent with Articles 11 (Packaging and labelling of tobacco products) and 12 (Education, communication, training and public awareness) of the WHO FCTC. Implement comprehensive bans on tobacco advertising , promotion and sponsorship, consistent with Article 13 (Tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship) of the WHO FCTC. Offer help to people who want to stop using tobacco , or reduce their exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, especially pregnant wo men, consistent with Article 14 (Demand reduction measures concerning tobacco dependence and cessation) of the WHO FCTC. Regulate the contents and emissions of tobacco prod ucts and require manufacturers and importers of tobacco products to disclose to governmental authorities information about the contents and emissions of tobacco product s, consistent with Articles 9 (Regulation of the contents of tobacco products) and 10 (Regulation of tobacco product disclosures) of the WHO FCTC. Inaccordance with the Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-commu nicable Diseases and the guidance provided by the Conference of the Parties to the WHO FCTC, raise taxes on all tobacco products, to reduce tobacco consumption , consistent with Article 6 (Price and tax measures to reduce the demand for tobacco) of the WHO FCTC. (c) In order to facilitate the implementation of comprehensive multisectoral measures in line with the WHO FCTC, take the following action: Monitor tobacco use, particularly including initiation by and current tobacco use among youth, in line with the indicators of the global monitoring framework, and monitor the implementation of tobacco control polic ies and measures consistent with Articles 20 (Research, surveillance and exchange of information) and 21 (Reporting and exchange of information) of the WHO FCTC. Establish or reinforce and finance a national coord inating mechanism or focal points for tobacco control, consistent with Article 5 (Gen eral obligations) of the WHO FCTC. Establish or reinforce and finance mechanisms to enforce adopted tobacco control policies, consistent with Article 26 (Financial res ources) of the WHO FCTC. WHA66.10 Annex 24 Policy options for Member States: 1 promoting a healthy diet 37. The proposed policy options are intended to advance the implementation of global strategies and recommendations to make progress towards the voluntary global targets setout below: A 30% relative reduction in mean population intake of salt / sodium A halt in the rise in diabetes and obesity A 25% relative reduction in the prevalence of raised blood pressure or containment of the prevalence of raised blood pressure according to national circumstances. 38. Member States should consider developing or strengthening national food and nutrition policies and action plans and implementation of related global strategies including the global strategy on diet , physical activity and health, the global strategy for infant and young child feeding, the comprehensive implementation plan on maternal, infant and young child nutrition and WHOs set of recommendations on the marketing of foods and non-a lcoholic beverages to children. Member States should also consider implementing other relevant ev idence-guided strategies, to promote healthy diets in the entire population (see Appendix 1 and Appendix 3), while protecting dietary guidance and food policy from undue influence of commercial and other vested interests. 39. Such policies and programmes should include a monit oring and evaluation plan and would aim to: (a) Promote and support exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of life, continued breastfeeding until two years old and beyond and adequate and timely complementary feeding. (b) Implement WHOs set of recommendations on marketing of foods and non-alcoholic beverages to children, including mechanisms for mon itoring. (c) Develop guidelines, recommendations or policy m easures that engage different relevant sectors, such as food producers and processors, and other relevant commercial operators, aswell as consumers, to: Reduce the level of salt / sodium added to food (prep ared or processed) Increase availability, affordability and consumption of fruit and vegetables Reduce saturated fatty acids in food and replace them with unsaturated fatty acids Replace trans-fats with unsaturated fats Reduce the content of free and added sugars in food and non-alcoholic beverages Limit excess calorie intake, reduce portion size and energy density of foods. (d) Develop policy measures that engage food retail ers and caterers to improve the availability, affordability and acceptability of he althier food products (plant foods, including 1 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. Annex WHA66.10 25 fruit and vegetables, and products with reduced content of salt / sodium, saturated fatty acids, trans-fatty acids and free sugars). (e) Promote the provision and availability of healthy food in all public institutions including schools, other educational institutions and the wor kplace.1 (f) As appropriate to national context, consider economic tools that are justified by evidence, and may include taxes and subsidies, that create in centives for behaviours associated with improved health outcomes, improve the affordability and encourage consumption of healthier food products and discourage the consumption of less healthy options. (g) Develop policy measures in cooperation with the agricultural sector to reinforce the measures directed at food processors, retailers, ca terers and public institutions, and provide greater opportunities for utilization of healthy agricultural products and foods. (h) Conduct evidence-informed public campaigns and social marketing initiatives to inform and encourage consumers about healthy dietary pract ices. Campaigns should be linked to supporting actions across the community and within specific settings for maximum benefit and impact. (i) Create health- and nutrition-promoting environm ents, including through nutrition education, in schools, child care centres and other educational institutions, workplaces, clinics and hospitals, and other public and private institu tions. (j) Promote nutrition labelling, according but not limited to, international standards, in particular the Codex Alimentarius, for all pre-pack aged foods including those for which nutrition or health claims are made. Policy options for Member States: 2 promoting physical activity 40. The proposed policy options are intended to advance the implementation of the global strategy on diet, physical activity and health and other relevant strategies, and to promote the ancillary bene fits from increasing population levels of physical activ ity, such as improved educational achievement and social and mental health benefits, together with cleaner air, reduced traffic, less congestion and the links to healthy child development and sustainable development (see Appendix 1). In addition, interventions to increase participation in physical activity in the entire population for which favour able cost-effectiveness data are emerging should be prom oted. The aim is to contribute to achieving the voluntary global targets listed below: A 10% relative reduction in prevalence of insufficient physical activity Halt the rise in diabetes and obesity A 25% relative reduction in the prevalence of raised blood pressure or contain the prevalence of raised blood pressure according to national circ umstances. 1 For example, through nutrition standards for public sector catering establishments and use of government contracts for food purchasing. 2 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. WHA66.10 Annex 26 41. The proposed policy options include: (a) Adopt and implement national guidelines on physical activity for health. (b) Consider establishing a multisectoral committee or similar body to provide strategic leadership and coordination. (c) Develop appropriate partnerships and engage all stakeholders, across government, NGOs and civil society and economic operators, actively and appropriately implementing actions aimed at increasing physical activity across all ag es. (d) Develop policy measures in cooperation with relevant sectors to promote physical activity through activities of daily living, including through active transport, recreation, leisure and sport, for example: National and subnational urban planning and transport policies to improve the accessibility, acceptability and safety of, and supportive infrastructure for, walking and cycling. Improved provision of quality physical education in educational settings (from infant years to tertiary level) including opportunities for physical activity before, during and after the formal school day. Initiatives to support and encourage physical activity for all initiatives for all ages. Creation and preservation of built and natural envi ronments which support physical activity in schools, universities, workplaces, clin ics and hospitals, and in the wider community, with a particular focus on providing infrastructure to support active transport i.e. walking and cycling, active recreation and play, and participation in sports. Promotion of community involvement in implementing local actions aimed at increasing physical activity. (e) Conduct evidence-informed public campaigns through mass media, social media and at the community level and social marketing initiative s to inform and motivate adults and young people about the benefits of physical activity and to facilitate healthy behaviours. Campaigns should be linked to supporting actions across the community and within specific settings for maximum benefit and impact. (f) Encourage the evaluation of actions aimed at increasing physical activity, to contribute to the development of an evidence base of effective and cost-effective actions. Annex WHA66.10 27 Policy options for Member States: 1 reducing the harmful use of alcohol 2 42. Proposed policy options are intended to advance the adoption and implementation of the global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol and to mobilize political will and financial resources for that purpose in order to contribute to achieving the voluntary global targets listed below: At least a 10% relative reduction in the harmful use of alcohol, as appropriate, within the national context. A 25% relative reduction in the prevalence of raised blood pressure or containment of the prevalence of raised blood pressure, according national circumstances. 43. Proposed actions for Member States are setout belo w: (a) Multisectoral national policies: Develop and implement, as appropriate, comprehensive and multisectoral national policies and programmes to reduce the harmful use of alcohol as outlined in the global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol, addressing the general levels, patterns and contexts of alcohol consumption and the wider social determinants of health in a population (see Appendix 1). The global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol recommends the following 10 target areas for national policies and programmes: leadership, awareness and commitment health services response community action drinkdriving policies and countermeasures availability of alcohol marketing of alcoholic beverages pricing policies reducing the negative consequences of drinking and alcohol intoxication reducing the public health impact of illicit land informally produced alcohol monitoring and surveillance. (b) Public health policies: Formulate public health policies and interventions to reduce the harmful use of alcohol based on clear public health goals, existing best practices, best-available knowledge and evidence of effectiveness and cost-ef fectiveness generated indifferent contexts. 1 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. 2 The word harmful in this action plan refers only to public-health effects of alcohol consumption, without prejudice to religious beliefs and cultural norms in any way. WHA66.10 Annex 28 (c) Leadership: Strengthen capacity and empower health ministries to assume a crucial role in bringing together other ministries and stakehold ers as appropriate for effective public policy development and implementation to prevent and reduce the harmful use of alcohol while protecting those policies from undue influence of commercial and other vested interests. (d) Capacity: Increase the capacity of health care services deliver prevention and treatment interventions for hazardous use of land alcohol use disorders, including screening and brief interventions in all settings providing treatment and care for noncommunicable diseases. (e) Monitoring: Develop effective frameworks for monitoring the harmful use of alcohol, as appropriate to national context, based ona set of indicators included in the comprehensive global monitoring framework for noncommunicable dis eases and in line with the global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol and its monito ring and reporting mechanisms, and developing further technical tools to support monit oring of agreed indicators of harmful use of alcohol and strengthening of national monitoring sy stems, aswell as epidemiological research on alcohol and public health in Member States. Actions for the Secretariat: tobacco control, promo ting healthy diet, physical activity and reducing the harmful use of alcohol 44. Actions envisaged for the Secretariat include: (a) Leading and convening: Work with the Secretariat of the WHO FCTC and United Nations funds, programmes and agencies (see Appendix 4) to reduce modifiable risk factors at the country level, including as part of integrating prevention of noncommunicable diseases into the United Nations Development Assistance Framework s design processes and implementation at the country level. (b) Technical cooperation: Provide technical assistance to reduce modifiable risk factors including through implementing the WHO FCTC and its guidelines, and the WHO guidelines and global strategies for addressing modifiable risk factors and other health-promoting policy options including healthy workplace initiatives, he alth-promoting schools and other educational institutions, healthy-cities initiatives, health-se nsitive urban development and social and environmental protection initiatives, for instance through engagement of local / municipal councils and subregional groups. (c) Policy advice and dialogue: Publish and disseminate guidance (toolkits) on the implementation and evaluation of interventions at the country level for reducing the prevalence of tobacco use, promoting a healthy diet and physical activity and reducing the harmful use of alcohol. (d) Norms and standards: Support the Conference of the Parties to the WHO F CTC, through the Convention Secretariat, in promoting effective implementation of the Convention, including through development of guidelines and pro tocols where appropriate; continue to build on existing efforts and develop normative guidance and technical tools to support the implementation of WHOs global strategies for addre ssing modifiable risk factors; further develop a common set of indicators and data collection tools for tracking modifiable risk factors in populations, including studying the feasibility of composite indicators for monitoring the harmful use of alcohol at different levels and strengthening instruments for monitoring risk Annex WHA66.10 29 factors such as tobacco use, harmful use of alcohol , unhealthy diet and physical inactivity, aswell as developing country capacity for data analys is, reporting and dissemination. (e) Knowledge generation: Strengthen the evidence base and disseminate evidence to support policy interventions at the country level for reducing the prevalence of tobacco use, promoting a healthy diet and physical activity and reducing the harmful use of alcohol. Proposed actions for international partners: 45. Strengthen international cooperation within the framework of NorthSouth, SouthSouth and triangular cooperation, and forge collaborative par tnerships, as appropriate, to: Facilitate the implementation of the WHO FCTC, the global strategy to reduce harmful use of alcohol, the global strategy on diet, physical activity and health, the global strategy for infant and young child feeding, and the implementation of WHOs set of recommendations on the marketing of foods and non-alcoholic beverages to c hildren, by supporting and participating incapacity strengthening, shaping the research age nda, development and implementation of technical guidance, and mobilizing financial suppor t, as appropriate. Objective 4. To strengthen and orient health system s to address the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases and the underlying social determinants through people-centred primary health care and universal health coverage 46. The Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases recognizes the importance of universal health coverage, especially through primary health care and social protection mechanisms, to provide access to health services for all, in particular, to the poorest seg ments of the population (paragraph 45(n) of the Political Declaration of the United Nations General Assembly High-level Meeting on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases). For comprehensive care of noncommunicable diseases all people require access, without discrimination, toa nationally determined set of promotive, preventive, curat ive, rehabilitative and palliative basic health services . It must be ensured that the use of these services does not expose the users to financial hardship, includi ng in cases of ensuring the continuity of care in the aftermath of emergencies and disasters. A strengthe ned health system directed towards addressing noncommunicable diseases should aim to improve health promotion, prevention, early detection, treatment and sustained management of people with rat high risk for cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic respiratory disease, diabetes and other noncommunicable diseases (Appendix 3), in order to prevent complications, reduce the need for hospitalization and costly high-technology interventions and premature deaths. The health sector also needs to collaborate with other sectors and work in partnership to ensure social determinants are considered in service planning and provision within communities. 47. The actions outlined under this objective aim strengthen the health system including the health workforce, set policy directions for moving towards universal health coverage and contribute to achieving the voluntary global targets listed below aswell as the premature mortality target. At least 50% of eligible people receive drug therapy and counselling (including glycaemic control) to prevent heart attacks and strokes An 80% availability of the affordable basic technol ogies and essential medicines, including generics, required to treat major noncommunicable d iseases in both public and private facilities. WHA66.10 Annex 30 A 25% relative reduction in the prevalence of raised blood pressure or contain the prevalence of raised blood pressure, according to national cir cumstances. Policy options for Member States 1 48. It is proposed that, inaccordance with their legis lation, and as appropriate in view of their specific circumstances, Member States may select and undertake actions from among the policy options setout below. (a) Leadership: Policy options to strengthen effective governance and accountability include: Exercise responsibility and accountability in ensur ing the availability of noncommunicable disease services within the context of overall health system strengthening. Use participatory community-based approaches in des igning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating inclusive noncommunicable disease programmes across the life-course and continuum of care to enhance and promote response effectiveness and equity. Integrate noncommunicable disease services into health sector reforms and / or plans for improving health systems performance. As appropriate, orient health systems towards addre ssing the impacts of social determinants of health, including through evidence- based interventions supported by universal health coverage. (b) Financing: Policy options to establish sustainable and equitable health financing include: Shift from reliance on user fees levied on ill people to the protection provided by pooling and prepayment, with inclusion of noncommunicable disease services. Make progress towards universal health coverage through a combination of domestic revenues and traditional and innovative financing, giving priority to financing a combination of cost-effective preventive, curative and palliative care interventions at different levels of care covering noncommunicable d iseases and including comorbidities (see Appendix 3). Develop local and national initiatives for financial risk protection and other forms of social protection (for example through health insur ance, tax funding and cash transfers and the consideration of health savings accounts), covering prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and palliative care for all conditio ns including noncommunicable diseases and for all people including those not employed in the formal sector. (c) Expanded quality services coverage: Policy options to improve efficiency, equity, coverage and quality of health services with a special focus on cardiovascular disease, cancer, 1 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. Annex WHA66.10 31 chronic respiratory disease and diabetes and their risk factors, together with other noncommunicable diseases which maybe domestic prio rities, include: Strengthen and organize services, access and referral systems around close-to-user and people-centred networks of primary health care that are fully integrated with the secondary and tertiary care level of the health care delivery system, including quality rehabilitation, comprehensive palliative care and specialized ambulatory and inpatient care facilities. Enable all providers (including nongovernmental org anizations, for-profit and not-forprofit providers) to address noncommunicable diseas es equitably while safeguarding consumer protection and also harnessing the potential of a range of other services such as traditional and complementary medicine, preventi on, rehabilitation, palliative care and social services to deal with such diseases. Improve the efficiency of service delivery and set national targets consistent with voluntary global targets for increasing the coverage of cost-effective, high-impact interventions to address cardiovascular disease, di abetes, cancer, and chronic respiratory disease in a phased manner (see Appendix 3), linking noncommunicable disease services with other disease-specific progra mmes, including those for mental health (See Appendix 1). Meet the needs for long-term care of people with noncommunicable chronic diseases, related disabilities and comorbidities through inno vative, effective and integrated models of care, connecting occupational health serv ices and community health services / resources with primary health care and the rest of the health care delivery system. Establish quality assurance and continuous quality improvement systems for prevention and management of noncommunicable diseas es with emphasis on primary health care, including the use of evidence-based gu idelines, treatment protocols and tools for the management of major noncommunicable d iseases, risk factors and comorbidities, adapted to national contexts. Take action to empower people with noncommunicable diseases to seek early detection and manage their own condition better, and provide education, incentives and tools for self-care and self-management, based on evidence-based guidelines, patient registries and team-based patient management including through information and communication technologies such as eHealth or m Health. Review existing programmes, such as those on nutrit ion, HIV, tuberculosis, reproductive health, maternal and child health and mental health including dementia, for opportunities to integrate into them service delivery for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. (d) Human resource development: Policy options to strengthen human resources the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases include: Identify competencies required and invest in improving the knowledge, skills and motivation of the current health workforce to address noncommunicable diseases, WHA66.10 Annex 32 including common comorbid conditions (e.g. mental d isorders) and plan to address projected health workforce needs for the future, in cluding in the light of population ageing. Incorporate the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases in the training of all health personnel including community health wor kers, social workers, professional and non-professional (technical, vocational) staff, with an emphasis on primary health care. Provide adequate compensation and incentives for health workers to serve underserviced areas including location, infrastruct ure, training and development and social support. Promote the production, training and retention of health workers with a view to facilitating adequate deployment of a skilled workf orce within countries and regions inaccordance with the WHO Global Code of Practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel.1 Develop career tracks for health workers through strengthening postgraduate training, with a special focus on noncommunicable diseases, in various professional disciplines (for example, medicine, allied health sciences, nur sing, pharmacy, public health administration, nutrition, health economics, social work and medical education) and enhancing career advancement for non-professional s taff. Optimize the scope of nurses and allied health pro fessionals practice to contribute to prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, including addressing barriers to that contribution. Strengthen capacities for planning, implementing, m onitoring and evaluating service delivery for noncommunicable diseases through gover nment, public and private academic institutions, professional associations, p atients organizations and self-care platforms. (e) Access: Policy options to improve equitable access to prevention programmes (such as those providing health information) and services, essential medicines and technologies, with emphasis on medicines and technologies required for delivery of essential interventions for cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic respiratory disease and diabetes, through a primary health care approach, include: Promote access to comprehensive and cost-effective prevention, treatment and care for the integrated management of noncommunicable diseas es, including, inter alia, increased access to affordable, safe, effective and quality medicines and diagnostics and other technologies, including through the full use of trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) flexibilities. Adopt evidence-informed country-based strategies to improve patient access to affordable medicines (for example, by including relevant medicines in national essential medicines lists, separating prescribing and dispensing, controlling wholesale 1 See resolution WHA63.16. Annex WHA66.10 33 and retail mark-ups through regressive mark-up sche mes, and exempting medicines required for essential noncommunicable disease inte rventions from import and other forms of tax, where appropriate, within the national context). Promote procurement and use of safe, quality, efficacious and affordable medicines, including generics, for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, including access to medicines for alleviation of pain for palliative care and vaccinations against infection-associated cancers, through measures including quality assurance of medical products, preferential or accelerated registration procedures, generic substitution, preferential use of the international non-proprietary names, financial incentives where appropriate and education of prescribers and consumers. Improve the availability of life-saving technologie sand essential medicines for managing noncommunicable diseases in the initial phase of emergency response. Facilitate access to preventive measures, treatment and vocational rehabilitation, aswell as financial compensation for occupational noncommunicable diseases, consistent with international and national laws and regulations on occupational diseases. Actions for the Secretariat 49. Actions envisaged for the Secretariat include: (a) Leading and convening: Position the response to noncommunicable diseases at the forefront of efforts to strengthen health systems and achieve universal health coverage. (b) Technical cooperation: Provide support, guidance and technical background to countries in integrating cost-effective interventions for noncommunicable di seases and their risk factors into health systems, including essential primary health care packages. Encourage countries to improve access to cost-effec tive prevention, treatment and care including, inter alia, increased availability of af fordable, safe, effective and quality medicines and diagnostics and other technologies in line with the global strategy and plan of action on public health, innovation and intellectual property. Deploy an interagency emergency health kit for treatment of noncommunicable diseases in humanitarian disasters and emergencies. (c) Policy advice and dialogue: Provide health policy guidance, inaccordance with its mandate, using existing strategies that have been the subject of resolutions adopted by the World Health Assembly to advance the agenda for peo ple-centred primary health care and universal health coverage. (d) Norms and standards: Develop guidelines, tools and training materials ( i) to strengthen the implementation of cost-effective noncommunicable disease interventions for early detection, treatment, rehabilitation and palliative care; (ii) to establish diagnostic and exposure criteria for early detection, prevention and control of occupational noncommunicable diseases; (iii) to WHA66.10 Annex 34 facilitate affordable, evidence-based, patient / fami ly-centred self-care with a special focus on populations with low health awareness and / or litera cy, including the use of information and communication technologies (ICT), such as the Inter net / mobile phone technologies, for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, including health education, health promotion and communication for all groups.1 (e) Dissemination of evidence and best practices: Provide further evidence on the effectiveness of different approaches to structured integrated care programmes for noncommunicable diseases and facilitate exchange of lessons, experiences and best practices, adding to the global body of evidence which will enhance the capacity of countries to face challenges and sustain achievements, aswell as to develop new solutions to address noncommunicable diseases and progressively to implement universal health coverage. Proposed actions for international partners 50. Strengthen international cooperation within the framework of NorthSouth, SouthSouth and triangular cooperation and forge collaborative part nerships, as appropriate, to: (a) Facilitate the mobilization of adequate, predictable and sustained financial resources to advance universal coverage in national health syste ms, especially through primary health care further to facilitate quality and affordable secondary / tertiary health care and treatment facilities and social protection mechanisms, in order to provide access to health services for all, in particular for the poorest segments of the populati on. (b) Support national authorities in strengthening health systems and expanding quality service coverage including through development of appropriate health care infrastructure and institutional capacity for training of health personnel such as public health institutions, medical and nursing schools. (c) Contribute to efforts to improve access to affo rdable, safe, effective and quality medicines and diagnostics and other technologies, i ncluding through the full use of trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights flexibiliti es and provisions. (d) Support national efforts for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, inter alia through the exchange of information on best practices and dissemination of findings in health systems research. Objective 5. To promote and support national capacity for high-quality research and development for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 51. Although effective interventions exist for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, their implementation is inadequate worldw ide. Comparative, applied and operational research, integrating both social and biomedical sc iences, is required to scale up and maximize the impact of existing interventions (see Appendix 3), in order to meet the nine voluntary global targets (see Appendix 2). 1The Secretariat will continue to implement the ITU / WHO Global Joint Programme on mHealth and noncommunicable diseases. Annex WHA66.10 35 52. The Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases calls upon all stakeholders to support and facilitate research related to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, and its translation into practice, so as to enhance the knowledge base for national, land global action. The global strategy and plan faction on public health, innovation and intellectual property (WHA61.21), encourages needs-driven research to target diseases that disproportionately affect people in low- and middle-income countries, including noncommunicable diseases. WHOs prioritiz ed research agenda for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases drawn up through participatory and consultative process provides guidance on future investment in noncommunicable disease research.1 The agenda prioritizes (i) research for placing noncommunicable diseases in the global development agenda and for monitoring; (ii) research to understand and influence the multi sectoral, macroeconomic and social determinants of noncommunicable diseases and risk factors; (iii) translation and health systems research for global application of proven cost-effective strategies; and (iv) research to enable expensive but effective interventions to become accessible and be appropriately used in resource-constrained settings. Policy options for Member States 2 53. It is proposed that, inaccordance with their legis lation, and as appropriate in view of their specific circumstances Member States may select and undertake actions from among the policy options setout below. (a) Investment: Increase investment in research, innovation and development and its governance as an integral part of the national response to noncommunicable diseases; in particular, allocate budgets to promote relevant research to fill gaps around the interventions in Appendix 3 in terms of their scalability, impact and effectiveness. (b) National research policy and plans: Develop, implement and monitor in collaboration with academic and research institutions, as appropr iate, a national policy and plan on noncommunicable-disease-related research including community-based research and evaluation of the impact of interventions and policies. (c) Capacity strengthening: Strengthen national institutional capacity for research and development, including research infrastructure, equipment and supplies in research institutions, and the competence of researchers to conduct quality research. (d) Innovation: Make more effective use of academic institutions and multidisciplinary agencies to promote research, retain research workf orce, incentivize innovation and encourage the establishment of national reference centres and networks to conduct policy-relevant research. (e) Evidence to inform policy: Strengthen the scientific basis for decision-makin g through noncommunicable-disease-related research and its translation to enhance the knowledge base for ongoing national action. 1 A prioritized research agenda for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. Geneva, World Health Organization, 2011. 2 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. WHA66.10 Annex 36 (f) Accountability for progress: Track the domestic and international resource flow s for research and national research output and impact applicable to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. Actions for the Secretariat 54. Actions envisaged for the Secretariat include: (a) Leading and convening: Engage WHO collaborating centres, academic institu tions, research organizations and alliances to strengthen capacity for research on noncommunicable diseases at the country level based on key areas id entified in WHOs prioritized research agenda, promoting in particular research designed to improve understanding of affordability, implementation capacity, feasibility and impact on health equity of interventions and policy options contained in Appendix 3. (b) Technical cooperation: Provide technical assistance upon request to strengthen national and regional capacity: (i) to incorporate research, development and innovation in national and regional policies and plans on noncommunicable dise ases; (ii) to adopt and advance WHOs prioritized research agenda on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, taking into consideration national needs and contexts; and (iii) to formulate research and development plans, enhance innovation capacities to support the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. (c) Policy advice and dialogue: Promote sharing of intercountry research expertise and experience and publish / disseminate guidance (toolk its) on how to strengthen links among policy, practice and products of research on prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. Proposed actions for international partners 55. Strengthen NorthSouth, SouthSouth and triangular cooperation and forge collaborative partnerships, as appropriate, to: Promote investment and strengthen national capacity for quality research, development and innovation, for all aspects related to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases in a sustainable and cost-effective manner, includi ng through strengthening of institutional capacity and creation of research fellowships and s cholarships. Facilitate noncommunicable-disease-related research and its translation to enhance the knowledge base for implementation of national, regional and global action plans. Promote the use of information and communications technology to improve programme implementation, health outcomes, health promotion, monitoring and reporting and surveillance systems and to disseminate, as appropr iate, information on affordable, cost-effective, sustainable and quality interventio ns, best practices and lessons learnt in the field of noncommunicable diseases. Support countries and the Secretariat in implementi ng other actions setout in this objective. Annex WHA66.10 37 Objective 6. To monitor the trends and determinants of noncommunicable diseases and evaluate progress in their prevention and control 56. The actions listed under this objective will assist in monitoring global and national progress in the prevention and control of noncommunicable disea ses, using the global monitoring framework consisting of 25 indicators and nine voluntary global targets (see Appendix 2). Monitoring will provide internationally comparable assessments the trends in noncommunicable diseases over time, help to benchmark the situation in individual count ries against others in the same region or development category, provide the foundation for ad vocacy, policy development and coordinated action and help to reinforce political commitment. 57. In addition to the indicators outlined in the frame work, countries and regions may include others to monitor progress of national and regional strate gies for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, taking into account count ry- and region-specific situations. 58. Financial and technical support will need to increase significantly for institutional strengthening in order to conduct surveillance and monitoring, taking account of innovations and new technologies which may increase effectiveness in collection and improve data quality and coverage, in order to strengthen capacity of countries to collect, analyse and communicate data for surveillance and global and national monitoring. Policy options for Member States 1 59. It is proposed that, inaccordance with their legis lation, and as appropriate in view of their specific circumstances, Member States may select and undertake actions from among the policy options setout below. (a) Monitoring: Update legislation pertaining to collection of health statistics, strengthen vital registration and cause of death registration systems, define and adopt a set of national targets and indicators based on the global monitori ng framework and integrate monitoring systems for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, including prevalence of relevant key interventions into national health information systems, in order systematically to assess progress in use and impact of interventions. (b) Disease registries: Develop, maintain and strengthen disease registrie s, including for cancer, if feasible and sustainable, with appropriate indicators for better understanding of regional and national needs. (c) Surveillance: Identify data sets, sources of data and integrate surveillance into national health information systems and undertake periodic data collection on the behavioural and metabolic risk factors (harmful use of alcohol, physical inactivity, tobacco use, unhealthy diet, overweight and obesity, raised blood pressure, raised blood glucose, and hyperlipidemia), and determinants of risk exposure such as marketing of food, tobacco and alcohol, with disaggregation of the data, where available, by key dimensions of equity, including gender, age (e.g. children, adolescents, adults) and socioeconomic status in order to monitor trends and measure progress in addressing inequalities. 1 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations. WHA66.10 Annex 38 (d) Capacity strengthening and innovation: Strengthen technical and institutional capacity including through establishment of public health in stitutes, to manage and implement surveillance and monitoring systems that are integr ated into existing health information systems, with a focus on capacity for data management, analysis and reporting in order to improve availability of high-quality data on noncommunicable diseases and risk factors. (e) Dissemination and use of results: Contribute, ona routine basis, information on tre nds in noncommunicable diseases with respect to morbidi ty, mortality by cause, risk factors and other determinants, disaggregated by age, gender, disability and socioeconomic groups and provide information to WHO on progress made in the implementation of national action plans and on effectiveness of national policies and strat egies, coordinating country reporting with global analyses. (f) Budgetary allocation: Increase and prioritize budgetary allocations for surveillance and monitoring systems for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. Actions for the Secretariat 60. Actions envisaged for the Secretariat include: (a) Technical cooperation: Provide support to Member States to: Establish or strengthen national surveillance and m onitoring systems, including improving collection of data on risk factors and other determinants, morbidity and mortality, and national responses for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, for example through the development of standard modules, where appropriate, within household surveys. Develop national targets and indicators based on national situations, taking into account the global monitoring framework, including its indicators, anda set of voluntary global targets. (b) Set standards and monitor global trends, capacity and progress in achieving the voluntary global targets: Develop appropriate action plan indicators as soon as possible, to monitor progress of implementation of the action plan. Develop, maintain and review standards for measurement of noncommunicable disease risk factors. Undertake periodic assessments of Member States national capacity to prevent and control noncommunicable diseases. Provide guidance on definitions, as appropriate, don how indicators should be measured, collected, aggregated and reported, aswell as the health information system requirements at national level needed to achieve th at. Review global progress made in the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, through monitoring and reporting on the attainment of the voluntary global Annex WHA66.10 39 targets in 2015 and 2020, so that countries can share knowledge of accelerators of progress and identify and remove impediments to att aining the global voluntary targets. Monitor global trends in noncommunicable diseases and their risk factors, and country capacity to respond, and publish periodic progress reports outlining the global status of the prevention and control of noncommunicable di seases, aligning such reporting with the 2015 and 2020 reporting within the global monitoring framework, and publish risk-factor-specific reports such as on the global tobacco epidemic or on alcohol and health. Convene a representative group of stakeholders, inc luding Member States and international partners, in order to evaluate progress on implementation of this action plan at the mid-point of the plans time frame and at the end of the period. The mid-term evaluation will offer an opportunity learn from the experience of the first four years of the plan, taking corrective measures where actions have not been effective, and to reorient parts of the plan, as ap propriate, in response to the post-2015 development agenda. Proposed actions for international partners 61. Strengthen NorthSouth, SouthSouth and triangular cooperation and forge collaborative partnerships, as appropriate, to: Mobilize resources, promote investment and strengthen national capacity for surveillance, monitoring and evaluation, on all aspects of prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. Facilitate surveillance and monitoring and the translation of results to provide the basis for advocacy, policy development and coordinated action and to reinforce political commitment. Promote the use of information and communications technology to improve capacity for surveillance and monitoring and to disseminate, as appropriate, data on trends in risk factors, determinants and noncommunicable diseases. Provide support for the other actions setout Member States and the Secretariat under objective 6 for monitoring and evaluating progress in prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases at the national, regional and global levels. WHA66.10 Annex 40 Appendix 1 Synergies between major noncommunicable diseases and other conditions A comprehensive response for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases should take cognizance of a number of other conditions. Example s of these include cognitive impairment and other noncommunicable diseases, including renal, endocrin , neurological including epilepsy, autism, Alzheimers and Parkinsons diseases, haematologica l including haemoglobinopathies (e.g. thalassaemia and sickle cell anaemia), hepatic, gastroenterologi cal, musculoskeletal, skin and oral diseases, disabilities and genetic disorders which may affect individuals either alone or as comorbidities. The presence of these conditions may also influence the development, progression and response to treatment of major noncommunicable diseases and should be addressed through integrated approaches. Further, conditions such as kidney disease result from lack of early detection and management of hypertension and diabetes and therefore are closely linked to major noncommunicable diseases. Other modifiable risk factors Four main shared risk factors tobacco use, unhealthy diet, physical inactivity and harmful use of alcohol are the most important in the sphere of noncommunicable diseases. Exposure to environmental and occupational hazards, such as indoor and outdoor air pollution, with fumes from solid fuels, ozone, airborne dust and al lergens may cause chronic respiratory disease and some air pollution sources including fumes from solid fuels may cause lung cancer, indoor and outdoor air pollution, heat waves and chronic stress related to work and unemployment are also associated with cardiovascular diseases. Exposure to carcinogens such as asbestos, diesel exhaust gases and ionizing and ultraviolet radiation in the living and working environment can increase the risk of cancer. Similarly, indiscriminate use of ag rochemicals in agriculture and discharge of toxic products from unregulated chemical industries may cause cancer and other noncommunicable diseases such as kidney disease. These exposures have their greatest potential to influence noncommunicable diseases early in life, and thus special attention must bepaid to preventing exposure during pregnancy and childhood. Simple, affordable interventions to reduce environmental and occupational health risks are available, and prioritization and implementation of these inte rventions can contribute to reducing the burden due to noncommunicable diseases (Health Assembly resolu tions WHA49.12 on WHO global strategy for occupational health for all, WHA58.22 on cancer prevention and control, WHA60.26 on workers health global plan of action, and WHA61.19 on climate change and health). Mental disorders As mental disorders are an important cause of morbidity and contribute to the global burden of noncommunicable diseases, equitable access to effective programmes and health care interventions is needed. Mental disorders affect, and are affected b y, other noncommunicable diseases: they can be a precursor or consequence of a noncommunicable disea se, or the result of interactive effects. For example, there is evidence that depression predispo ses people to heart attacks and, conversely, heart attacks increase the likelihood of depression. Risk factors of noncommunicable diseases such as sedentary behaviour and harmful use of alcohol also link noncommunicable diseases with mental disorders. Close connections with characteristics of economically underprivileged population segments such as lower educational level, lower socioeconomic status, stress and unemployment are Annex WHA66.10 41 shared by mental disorders and noncommunicable dise ases. Despite these strong connections, evidence indicates that mental disorders inpatient swith noncommunicable diseases aswell as noncommunicable diseases in patients with mental di sorders are often overlooked. The comprehensive mental health action plan needs tobe implemented inclose coordination with the action plan for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, at all levels. Communicable diseases The role of infectious agents in the pathogenesis of noncommunicable diseases, either on their own or in combination with genetic and environmental influ ences, has been increasingly recognized in recent years. Many noncommunicable diseases including cardiovascular disease and chronic respiratory disease are linked to communicable diseases in either aetiology or susceptibility to severe outcomes. Increasingly cancers, including some with global impact such as cancer of the cervix, liver, oral cavity and stomach, have been shown to have an infectious aetiology. In developing countries, infections are known tobe the cause of about one fifth of cancers . High rates of other cancers in developing countries that are linked to infections or infestat ions include herpes virus and HIV, in Kaposi sarcom a, and liver flukes, in cholangiocarcinoma. Some significant disabilities such as blindness, deafness, cardiac defects and intellectual impairment can derive from preventable infectious causes. Strong population-based services to control infectious dis eases through prevention, including immunization (e.g. vaccines against hepatitis B, human papilloma virus, measles, rubella, influenza, pertussis, and poliomyelitis), diagnosis, treatment and control st rategies will reduce both the burden and the impact of noncommunicable diseases. There is also a high risk of infectious disease acquisition and susceptibility in people with pre-exis ting noncommunicable diseases. Attention to this interaction would maximize the opportunities to detect and to treat both noncommunicable and infectious di seases through alert primary and more specialized health care services. For example, tobacco smokers and people with diabetes, alcohol-use disorders, immunosuppression or exposure to second-hand smoke have a higher risk of developing tuberculosis. As the diagnosis of tuberculosis is often missed in people with chronic respiratory diseases, collaboration in screening for diabetes and chronic respiratory disease in tuberculosis clinics and for tuberculosis in noncommunicable disease clinics could enhance case-finding. Likewise, integrating noncommunicable disease programmes or palliative care with HIV care programmes would bring mutual benefits since both cater to long-term care and support as apart of the programme and also because noncommunicable diseases can be a side-effect of lo ng-term treatment of HIV infection and AIDS. Demographic change and disabilities The prevention of noncommunicable diseases will increase the number and proportion of people who age healthily and avoid high health care costs and even higher indirect costs in older age groups. About 15% of the population experiences disability, and the increase in noncommunicable diseases is having a profound effect on disability trends; for example, these diseases are estimated to account for about two thirds of all years lived with disability in low-income and middle-income countries. Noncommunicable-disease-related disability (such as amputation, blindness or paralysis) puts significant demands on social welfare and health sy stems, lowers productivity and impoverishes families. Rehabilitation needs tobe a central health strategy in noncommunicable disease programmes in order to address risk factors (e.g. obesity and physical inactivity), aswell as loss of function due to noncommunicable diseases (e.g. amputation and blindness due to diabetes or stroke). Access to rehabilitation services can decrease the effects and consequences of disease, hasten discharge from hospital, slow or halt deterioration in health and improve quality of life. WHA66.10 Annex 42 Violence and unintentional injuries Exposure to child maltreatment (which includes phys ical, sexual, and emotional abuse, and neglector deprivation), is a recognized risk factor for the subsequent adoption of high-risk behaviours such as smoking, harmful use of alcohol, drug abuse, and eating disorders, which inturn predispose individuals to noncommunicable diseases. There is evidence that ischaemic heart disease, cancer and chronic lung disease are related to experiences of abuse during childhood. Similarly, experiencing intimate partner violence has been associated with harmful use of alcohol and drug abuse, smoking, and eating disorders. Programmes to prevent child maltreatment and intimate partner violence can therefore make a significant contribution to the prevention of noncommunicable diseases by reducing the likelihood of tobacco use, unhealthy diet, and harmful use of alcohol. The lack of safe infrastructure for people to walk and cycle is an inhibitor for physical exercise. Therefore, well-known road traffic injury prevention strategies such as appropriate road safety legislation and enforcement, aswell as good land use planning and infrastructure supporting safe walking and cycling, can contribute to the prevention of noncommunicable diseases aswell as help address injuries. Impairment by alcohol is an important factor influencing both the risks and the severity of all unintentional injuries. These include road traffic accidents, falls, drowning, burns and all forms of violence. Therefore, addressing harmful use of alcohol will be beneficial for prevention of noncommunicable diseases aswell as injuries. Annex WHA66.10 43 Appendix 2 Comprehensive global monitoring framework, includin g 25 indicators, anda set of nine voluntary global targets for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases Framework element Target Indicator Mortality and morbidity Premature mortality from noncommunicable disease (1) A 25% relative reduction in the overall mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, or chronic respiratory diseases (1) Unconditional probability of dying between ages of 30 and 70 from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases Additional indicator (2) Cancer incidence, by type of cancer, per 100 00 0 population Risk factors Behavioural risk factors Harmful use of alcohol1 (2) At least 10% relative reduction in the harmful use of alcohol as appropriate, within the national context (3) Total (recorded and unrecorded) alcohol per cap ita (aged 15+ years old) consumption within a calendar year in litres of pure alcohol, as appropriate, within the national context (4) Age-standardized prevalence of heavy episodic drinking among adolescents and adults, as appropria te, within the national context (5) Alcohol-related morbidity and mortality among adolescents and adults, as appropriate, within the national context Physical inactivity (3) A 10% relative reduction in prevalence of insufficient physical activity (6) Prevalence of insufficiently physically active adolescents, defined as less than 60 minutes of moderate to vigorous intensity activity daily (7) Age-standardized prevalence of insufficiently physically active persons aged 18+ years (defined as less than 150 minutes of moderate-intensity activity per week, or equivalent) Salt / sodium intake (4) A 30% relative reduction in mean population intake of salt / sodium 3 (8) Age-standardized mean population intake of salt (sodium chloride) per day in grams in persons aged 18+ years Tobacco use (5) A 30% relative reduction in prevalence of current tobacco use in persons aged 15+ years (9) Prevalence of current tobacco use among adolesc ents (10) Age-standardized prevalence of current tobacco use among persons aged 18+ years Biological risk factors Raised blood pressure (6) A 25% relative reduction in the prevalence of raised blood pressure or contain the prevalence of raised blood pressure, according to national circumstances (11) Age-standardized prevalence of raised blood pressure among persons aged 18+ years (defined as systolic blood pressure 140 mmHg and / or diastolic blood pressure 90 mmHg) and mean systolic blood pressure Diabetes and obesity 4 (7) Halt the rise in diabetes and obesity (12) Age-standardized prevalence of raised blood glucose / diabetes among persons aged 18+ years (defi ned as fasting plasma glucose concentration 7.0 mmol / l (126 mg / dl) or on medication for raised blood gluco se) (13) Prevalence of overweight and obesity in adoles cents (defined according to the WHO growth reference for school-aged children and adolescents, overweight one standard deviation body mass index forage and sex, and 1 Countries will select indicator(s) of harmful use as appropriate to national context and in line with WHOs global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol and that may include prevalence of heavy episodic drinking, total alcohol per capita consumption, and alcohol-related morbidity and mortality, among othe rs. 2 In WHOs global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol the concept of the harmful use of alcohol encompasses the drinking that causes detrimental health and social consequen ces for the drinker, the people around the drinker and society at large, aswell as the patterns of drinking that are associated with incre ased risk of adverse health outcomes. 3 WHOs recommendation is less than 5 grams of salt or 2 grams of sodium per person per day. 4 Countries will select indicator(s) appropriate to national context. WHA66.10 Annex 44 Framework element Target Indicator obese two standard deviations body mass index forage and sex) (14) Age-standardized prevalence of overweight and obesity in persons aged 18+ years (defined as body mass index 25 kg / m for overweight and body mass index 30 kg / m for obesity) Additional indicators (15) Age-standardized mean proportion of total energy intake from saturated fatty acids in persons aged 1 8+ years 1 (16) Age-standardized prevalence of persons (aged 1 8+ years) consuming less than five total servings (400 grams) of fruit and vegetables per day (17) Age-standardized prevalence of raised total cholesterol among persons aged 18+ years (defined as total cholesterol 5.0 mmol / l or 190 mg / dl); and mean total cholesterol concentration National systems response Drug therapy to prevent heart attacks and strokes (8) At least 50% of eligible people receive drug therapy and counselling (including glycaemic control) to prevent heart attacks and strokes (18) Proportion of eligible persons (defined as aged 40 years and older with a 10-year cardiovascular risk 30%, including those with existing cardiovascular diseas e) receiving drug therapy and counselling (including glycaemic control) to prevent heart attacks and str okes Essential noncommunicable disease medicines and basic technologies to treat major noncommunicable diseases (9) An 80% availability of the affordable basic technologies and essential medicines, including generics, required to treat major noncommunicable diseases in both public and private facilities (19) Availability and affordability of quality, safe and efficacious essential noncommunicable disease medicines, including generics, and basic technologi es in both public and private facilities Additional indicators (20) Access to palliative care assessed by morphine equivalent consumption of strong opioid analgesics (excluding methadone) per death from cancer (21) Adoption of national policies that limit saturated fatty acids and virtually eliminate partially hydro genated vegetable oils in the food supply, as appropriate, within the national context and national programmes (22) Availability, as appropriate, if cost-effectiv e and affordable, of vaccines against human papillomaviru s, according to national programmes and policies (23) Policies to reduce the impact on children of marketing of foods and non-alcoholic beverages high in saturated fats, trans fatty acids, free sugars, or salt (24) Vaccination coverage against hepatitis B virus monitored by number of third doses of Hep-B vaccine (HepB3) administered to infants (25) Proportion of women between the ages of 3049 screened for cervical cancer at least once, or more often, and for lower or higher age groups according to national programmes or policies 1 Individual fatty acids within the broad classification of saturated fatty acids have unique biological properties and health effects that can have relevance in developin g dietary recommendations. Annex WHA66.10 45 Appendix 3 Menu of policy options and cost-effective interventions for prevention and control of major noncommunicable diseases, to assist Member States in implementing, as appropriate, for national context, (without prejudice to the sovereign rights of nations to determine taxation among other policies), actions to achieve the nine voluntary global targets ( Note: This appendix needs tobe updated as evidence and cost-effectiveness of interventions evolve with time) . The list is not exhaustive but is intended to provide information and guidance on effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of interventions based on current evidence .,1,2 and to act as the basis for future work to develop and expand the evidence base on policy measures and individual interventions. According to WHO estimates, policy interventions in objective 3 and individual interventions tobe implemented in primary care settings in objective 4 , listed in bold, are very cost-effective 4 and affordable for all countries.1,2,-3 However, they have not been assessed for specific contexts of individual countries. When selecting interventions for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, consideration should be given to effectiv eness, costeffectiveness, affordability, implementation capacity, feasibility, according to national circumstances, and impact on health equity of interventions, and to the need to implement a combination of population-wide policy interventions and individual interventions. Menu of policy options Voluntary global targets WHO tools Objective 1 Raise public and political awareness, understanding and practice about prevention and control of NCDs Integrate NCDs into the social and development agenda and poverty alleviation strategies Strengthen international cooperation for resource m obilization, capacity-building, health workforce training and exchange of information on lessons learnt and best practices Engage and mobilize civil society and the private sector as appropriate and strengthen international cooperatio n to support implementation of the action plan at global, aland national levels Implement other policy options in objective 1 (see paragraph 21) Contribute to all 9 voluntary global targets WHO global status report on NCDs 2010 WHO fact sheets Global atlas on cardiovascular disease prevention and control 2011 IARC GLOBOCAN 2008 Existing regional and national tools Other relevant tools on WHO web site including resolutions and documents of WHO governing bodies and regional committees 1 Scaling up action against noncommunicable diseases : How much will it cost? / publications / 2011 / 9789241502313_eng.pdf). 2 WHO-CHOICE 3 Disease control priorities in developing countries 4 Very cost-effective i.e. generate an extra year of healthy life fora cost that falls below the average annual income or gross domestic product per person. WHA66.10 Annex 46 Menu of policy options Voluntary global targets WHO tools Objective 2 Prioritize and increase, as needed, budgetary alloc ations for prevention and control of NCDs, without prejudice to the sovereign right of nations to determine taxation and other policies Assess national capacity for prevention and control of NCDs Develop and implement a national multisectoral policy and plan for the prevention and control of NCDs through multistakeholder engagement Implement other policy options in objective 2 (see paragraph 30) to strengthen national capacity including human and institutional capacity, leadership, governance, mul tisectoral action and partnerships for prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases Contribute to all 9 voluntary global targets UN Secretary-Generals Note A / 67 / 373 NCD country capacity survey tool NCCP Core Capacity Assessment tool Existing regional and national tools Other relevant tools on WHO web site including resolutions and documents of WHO governing bodies and regional committees Objective 3 1 Tobacco use 2 Implement WHO FCTC (see paragraph 36). Parties to the WHO FCTC are required to implement all obligations under the treaty in full; all Member States that are not Parties are encouraged to look to the WHO FCTC as the foundational instrument in global tobacco control Reduce affordability of tobacco products by increasing tobacco excise taxes 3 Create bylaw completely smoke-free environments in all indoor workplaces, public places and public transport 3 Warn people of the dangers of tobacco and tobacco smoke through effective health warnings and mass media campaigns 3 Ban all forms of tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship 3 A 30% relative reduction in prevalence of current tobacco use in persons aged 15+ years A 25% relative reduction in overall mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases The WHO FCTC and its guidelines MPOWER capacitybuilding modules to reduce demand for tobacco, in line with the WHO FCTC WHO reports on the global tobacco epidemic Recommendations on the marketing of foods and non-alcoholic beverages to children (WHA63.14) Global strategy on diet, physical activity and 1 In addressing each risk factor, Member States should not rely on one single intervention, but should have a comprehensive approach to achieve desired results. 2 Tobacco use: Each of these measures reflects one or more provisions of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC). The measures included in this Appendix are not intended to suggest a prior itization of obligations under the WHO FCTC. Rather, these measu reshave been proven tobe feasible, affordable and cost-effective and are intended to fulfil the criteria established in the chapeau paragraph of Appendix 3 for assisting c ountries to meet the agreed targets as quickly as possible. The WHO FCTC includ es a number of other important provisions, includin g supply-reduction measures and those to support multisectoral action, which are part of any comprehensive tobacco control programme. Some interventions for management of noncommunicable diseases that are cost-effective in high-income s ettings, which assume a cost-effective infrastructure for diagnosis and referral and an adequate volume of case s, are not listed under objective 4, e.g. pacemaker implants for atrioventricular heart block, defibrillators in emergency veh icles, coronary revascularization procedures, and carotid endartere ctomy. 3 Very cost-effective i.e. generate an extra year of healthy life fora cost that falls below the average annual income or gross domestic product per person. Annex WHA66.10 47 Menu of policy options Voluntary global targets WHO tools Harmful use of alcohol Implement the WHO global strategy to reduce harmful use of alcohol (see objective 3, paragraphs 42, 43) through actions in the recommended target areas including: Strengthening awareness of alcohol-attributable bur den; leadership and political commitment to reduce the harmful use of alcohol Providing prevention and treatment interventions for those at risk of or affected by alcohol use disorders and associated conditions Supporting communities in adopting effective approa ches and interventions to prevent and reduce the harmful use of alcohol Implementing effective drinkdriving policies and countermeasures Regulating commercial and public availability of alcohol 1 Restricting or banning alcohol advertising and prom otions 1 Using pricing policies such as excise tax increases on alcoholic beverages 1 Reducing the negative consequences of drinking and alcohol intoxication, including by regulating the drinking context and providing consumer information Reducing the public health impact of illicit land informally produced alcohol by implementing efficient control and enforcement systems Developing sustainable national monitoring and surveillance systems using indicators, definitions and data collection procedures compatible with WHOs global and regional information systems on alcohol and health Unhealthy diet and physical inactivity Implement the WHO Global Strategy on Diet, Physical Activity and Health (see objective 3, paragraphs 40 41) Increase consumption of fruit and vegetables To provide more convenient, safe and health-oriente d environments for physical activity Implement recommendations on the marketing of foods and non-alcoholic beverages to children (see objective 3, paragraph 3839) Implement the WHO global strategy for infant and young child feeding At least a 10% relative reduction in the harmful use of alcohol, as appropriate, within the national context A 25% relative reduction in the prevalence of raised blood pressure or contain the prevalence of raised blood pressure according to national circumstances A 25% relative reduction in overall mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases A 10% relative reduction in prevalence of insufficient physical activity A 25% relative reduction in the prevalence of raised blood pressure or contain the prevalence of raised blood pressure according to national health, (WHA57.17) Global recommendations on physical activity for health Global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol (WHA63.13) WHO global status reports on alcohol and health 2011, 2013 WHO guidance on dietary salt and potassium Existing regional and national tools Other relevant tools on WHO web site including resolutions and documents of WHO governing bodies and regional committees 1 Very cost-effective i.e. generate an extra year of healthy life fora cost that falls below the average annual income or gross domestic product per person. WHA66.10 Annex 48 Menu of policy options Voluntary global targets WHO tools Reduce salt intake 1 Replace trans fats with unsaturated fats 1 Implement public awareness programmes on diet and physical activity 1 Replace saturated fat with unsaturated fat Manage food taxes and subsidies to promote healthy diet Implement other policy options listed in objective 3 for addressing unhealthy diet and physical inactivity circumstances Halt the rise in diabetes and obesity A 25% relative reduction in overall mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases A 30% relative reduction in mean population intake of salt / sodium intake Objective 4 Integrate very cost-effective noncommunicable disease interventions into the basic primary health care package with referral systems to all levels of care to advance the universal health coverage agenda Explore viable health financing mechanisms and innovative economic tools supported by evidence Scale up early detection and coverage, prioritizing very costeffective high-impact interventions including cost-effective interventions to address behavioural risk factors Train health workforce and strengthen capacity of health system particularly at primary care level to address the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases Improve availability of affordable basic technologi es and essential medicines, including generics, required to treat major noncommunicable diseases, in both public and private facilities Implement other cost-effective interventions and policy options in objective 4 (see paragraph 48) to strengthen and orient health systems to address noncommunicable di seases and risk factors through people-centred primary health care and universal health coverage Develop and implement a palliative care policy usin g cost- effective treatment modalities, including opioids a nalgesics for pain relief and training health workers An 80% availability of the affordable basic technologies and essential medicines, including generics, required to treat major noncommunicable diseases in both public and private facilities A 25% relative reduction in overall mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases WHO World health reports 2010, 2011 Prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases: Guidelines for primary health care in low-resource settings; diagnosis and management of type 2 diabetes and Management of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 2012 Guideline for cervical cancer: Use of cryotherapy for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia Guideline for pharmacological treatment of persisting pain in children with medical illnesses Scaling up NCD interventions, WHO 2011 1 Very cost-effective i.e. generate an extra year of healthy life fora cost that falls below the average annual income or gross domestic product per person. 2 And adjust the iodine content of iodized salt, when relevant. Annex WHA66.10 49 Menu of policy options Voluntary global targets WHO tools Cardiovascular disease and diabetes 1 Drug therapy (including glycaemic control for diabetes mellitus and control of hypertension using a total risk approach) and counselling to individuals who have had a heart attack or stroke and to persons with high risk ( 30%) of a fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular event in the next 10 years 2 Acetylsalicylic acid for acute myocardial infarction 2 Drug therapy (including glycaemic control for diabetes mellitus and control of hypertension using a total risk approach) and counselling to individuals who have had a heart attack or stroke, and to persons with moderate risk ( 20%) of a fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular event in the next 10 years Detection, treatment and control of hypertension and diabetes, using a total risk approach Secondary prevention of rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease Acetylsalicylic acid, atenolol and thrombolytic therapy (streptokinase) for acute myocardial infarction Treatment of congestive cardiac failure with ACE in hibitor, beta-blocker and diuretic Cardiac rehabilitation post myocardial infarction Anticoagulation for medium- and high-risk non-valvu lar atrial fibrillation and for mitral stenosis with atrial fibrillation Low-dose acetylsalicylic acid for ischemic stroke Diabetes 1 Lifestyle interventions for preventing type 2 diabetes Influenza vaccination for patients with diabetes Preconception care among women of reproductive age including patient education and intensive glucose management Detection of diabetic retinopathy by dilated eye examination followed by appropriate laser photocoagulation therapy to prevent blindness Effective angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor drug therapy to prevent progression of renal disease Care of acute stroke and rehabilitation instroke u nits At least 50% of eligible people receive drug therapy and counselling (including glycaemic control) to prevent heart attacks and strokes A 25% relative reduction in the prevalence of raised blood pressure or contain the prevalence of raised blood pressure, according to national circumstances WHO CHOICE database WHO Package of essential noncommunicable (PEN) disease interventions for primary health care including costing tool 2011 Prevention of cardiovascular disease. Guidelines for assessment and management of cardiovascular risk 2007 Integrated clinical protocols for primary health care and WHO ISH cardiovascular risk prediction charts 2012 Affordable technology: Blood pressure measurement devices for low-resource settings 2007 Indoor air quality guidelines WHO air quality guidelines for particular matter, ozone, nitrogen, dioxide and sulphur dioxide, 2005 Cancer control: Modules on prevention and palliative care Essential Medicines List (2011) OneHealth tool Enhancing nursing and midwifery capacity to contribute to the prevention, treatment and management of noncommunicable diseases Existing regional and 1 Policy actions for prevention of major noncommunicable diseases are listed under objective 3. 2 Very cost-effective i.e. generate an extra year of healthy life fora cost that falls below the average annual income or gross domestic product per person. WHA66.10 Annex 50 Menu of policy options Voluntary global targets WHO tools Interventions for foot care: educational programmes , access to appropriate footwear; multidisciplinary clinics Cancer 1 Prevention of liver cancer through hepatitis B immunization 2 Prevention of cervical cancer through screening (vi sual inspection with acetic acid [VIA] (or Pap smear (ce rvical cytology), if very cost-effective) linked with timely treatment of pre-cancerous lesions 2 Vaccination against human papillomavirus, as appropriate if cost-effective and affordable, according to national programmes and policies Population-based cervical cancer screening linked with timely treatment3 Population-based breast cancer and mammography screening (5070 years) linked with timely treatment3 Population-based colorectal cancer screening, inclu ding through a fecal occult blood test, as appropriate, at age >50, linked with timely treatment3 Oral cancer screening in high-risk groups (e.g. tobacco users, betel-nut chewers) linked with timely treatment3 Chronic respiratory disease 1 Access to improved stoves and cleaner fuels to reduce indoor air pollution Cost-effective interventions to prevent occupational lung diseases, e.g. from exposure to silica, asbestos Treatment of asthma based on WHO guidelines Influenza vaccination for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease national tools Other relevant tools on WHO web site including resolutions and documents of WHO governing bodies and regional committees Objective 5 Develop and implement a prioritized national research agenda for noncommunicable diseases Prioritize budgetary allocation for research on noncommunicable disease prevention and control Contribute to all 9 voluntary global targets Prioritized research agenda for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases 2011 1 Policy actions for prevention of major noncommunicable diseases are listed under objective 3. 2 Very cost-effective i.e. generate an extra year of healthy life fora cost that falls below the average annual income or gross domestic product per person. 3 Screening is meaningful only if associated with capacity for diagnosis, referral and treatment. Annex WHA66.10 51 Menu of policy options Voluntary global targets WHO tools Strengthen human resources and institutional capacity for research Strengthen research capacity through cooperation with foreign and domestic research institutes Implement other policy options in objective 5 (see paragraph 53) to promote and support national capacity for hi gh-quality research, development and innovation World Health Report 2013 Global strategy and plan of action on public health, innovation and intellectual property (WHA61.21) Existing regional and national tools Other relevant tools on WHO web site including resolutions and documents of WHO governing bodies and regional committees Objective 6 Develop national targets and indicators based on global monitoring framework and linked with a multisectora l policy and plan Strengthen human resources and institutional capacity for surveillance and monitoring and evaluation Establish and / or strengthen a comprehensive noncommunicable disease surveillance system, includ ing reliable registration of deaths by cause, cancer re gistration, periodic data collection on risk factors, and monit oring national response Integrate noncommunicable disease surveillance and monitoring into national health information systems Implement other policy options in objective 6 (see paragraph 59) to monitor trends and determinants of noncommunicable diseases and evaluate progress in their prevention and control Contribute to all 9 voluntary global targets Global monitoring framework Verbal autopsy instrument STEPwise approach to surveillance Global Tobacco Surveillance System Global Information System on Alcohol and Health Global school-based student health survey, ICD-10 training tool Service Availability and Readiness (SARA) assessment tool IARC GLOBOCAN 2008 Existing regional and national tools Other relevant tools on WHO web site including resolutions and documents of WHO governing bodies and regional committees WHA66.10 Annex 52 Appendix 41 Examples of collaborative division of tasks and res ponsibilities. Concerns a provisional list only. A division of labour is being developed by the United Nations Funds, programmes and agencies. UNDP Support non- health government departments in their efforts engage in a multisectoral whole-of-government approach to noncommunicable dis eases Support ministries of planning in integrating noncommunicable diseases in the development agenda of each Member State Support ministries of planning in integrating noncommunicable diseases explicitly into poverty-reduction strategies Support national AIDS commissions in integrating in terventions to address the harmful use of alcohol into existing national HIV programmes UNECE Support the Transport, Health and Environment Pan-E uropean Programme UN-ENERGY Support global tracking of access to clean energy and its health impacts for the United Nations Sustainable Energy for All Initiative Support the Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves and the dissemination / tracking of clean energy solutions for households UNEP Support the implementation of international environmental conventions UNFPA Support health ministries in integrating noncommunicable diseases into existing reproductive health programmes, with a particular focus on (1) cervical cancer and (2) promoting healthy lifestyles among adolescents UNICEF Strengthen the capacities of health ministries reduce risk factors for noncommunicable diseases among children and adolescents Strengthen the capacities of health ministries tackle malnutrition and childhood obesity UN-WOMEN Support ministries of women or social affairs in pr omoting gender- based approaches for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases UNAIDS Support national AIDS commissions in integrating in terventions for noncommunicable diseases into existing national HIV programmes Support health ministries in strengthening chronic care for HIV and noncommunicable diseases (within the context of overall health system strengthening) Support health ministries in integrating HIV and noncommunicable disease programmes, with a particular focus on primary health care UNSCN Facilitate United Nations harmonization of action at country and global levels for the reduction of dietary risk of noncommunicable diseas es Disseminate data, information and good practices on the reduction of dietary risk of noncommunicable diseases Integration of the action plan into food and nutrit ion-related plans, programmes and initiatives (for example, UNSCNs Scaling Up Nutrition, FAOs Committee on World Food Security, and the maternal, infant and young child nutrition programme of the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition) 1 This information will be updated periodically don input provided by United Nations agencies. Annex WHA66.10 53 IAEA Expand support to health ministries to strengthen treatment components within national cancer control strategies, alongside reviews and pr ojects of IAEA s Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy that promote comprehensive cancer control approaches to the implementation of radiation medicine programmes ILO Support WHOs global plan of action on workers health, Global Occupational Health Network and the Workplace Wellness Alliance of the World Economic Forum Promote the implementation of international labour standards for occupational safety and health, particularly those regarding occupational c ancer, asbestos, respiratory diseases and occupational health services UNRWA Strengthen preventive measures, screening, treatment and care for Palestine refugees living with noncommunicable diseases Improve access to affordable essential medicines for noncommunicable diseases through partnerships with pharmaceutical companies WFP Prevent nutrition-related noncommunicable diseases, including in crisis situations ITU Support ministries of information in including noncommunicable diseases in initiatives on information, communications and technology Support ministries of information in including noncommunicable diseases in girls and womens initiatives Support ministries of information in the use of mobile phones to encourage healthy choices and warn people about tobacco use, including through the existi ng ITU / WHO Global Joint Programme on mHealth and noncommunicable diseases FAO Strengthen the capacity of ministries of agriculture in redressing food insecurity, malnutrition and obesity Support ministries of agriculture in aligning agric ultural, trade and health policies WTO Operating within the scope of its mandate, support ministries of trade in coordination with other competent government departments (especially those concerned with public health), to address the interface between trade policies and public health issues in the area of noncommunicable diseases UN-HABITAT Support ministries of housing in addressing noncommunicable diseases in a context of rapid urbanization UNESCO Support the education sector in considering schools as sett ings to promote interventions to reduce the main shared modifiable risk factors for noncommunicable diseases Support the creation of programmes related to advocacy and community mobilization for the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases using the media and world information networks Improve literacy among journalists to enable informed reporting on issues impacting the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. UNOSDP Promote the use of sport as a means to the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases WIPO Operating within the scope of its mandate, support, upon request, relevant ministries and national institutions to address the interface between public health, innovation and intellectual property in the area of noncommunicable diseases UNODC Tobe further explored 1 INCB Tobe further explored 1 1 Including through the planned ECOSOC discussion on the UN taskforce. WHA66.10 Annex 54 Appendix 5 Examples of cross-sectoral government engagement to reduce risk factors, and potential health effects of multisectoral action 1 Sector Tobacco Physical inactivity Harmful use of alcohol Unhealthy diet Agriculture / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Communication / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Education / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Employment / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Energy / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Environment / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Finance / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Food / catering / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Foreign affairs / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Health / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Housing / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Justice / security / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Legislature / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Social welfare / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Social and economic development / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Sports / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Tax and revenue / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Trade and industry (excluding tobacco industry) / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Transport / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Urban planning / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck Youth affairs / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck / UIcheck 1 Adapted from A / 67 / 373 (available at .int / nmh / events / 2012 / 20121128.pdf). Annex WHA66.10 55 Examples of potential health effects of multisector al action 1 Tobacco Physical inactivity Harmful use of alcohol Unhealthy diet Sectors involved (examples) Legislature Stakeholder ministries across government, including ministries of agriculture, customs / revenue, economy, education, finance, health, foreign affairs, labour, planning, social welfare, state media, statistics and trade Ministries of education, finance, labour, planning, transport, urban planning, sports, and youth Local government Legislature Ministries of trade, industry, education, finance and justice, Local government Legislature Ministries of trade agriculture, industry, education, urban planning, energy, transport, social welfare and environment Local government Examples of multisectoral action Full implementation of WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control obligations through coordination committees at the national and subnational levels Urban planning / re-engineering for active transport and walkable cities School-based programmes to support physical activity Incentives for workplace healthylifestyle programmes Increased availability of safe environments and recreational spaces Mass media campaigns Economic interventions to promote physical activity (taxes on motorized transport, subsidies on bicycles and sports equipment) Full implementation of the WHO global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol Reduced amounts of salt, saturated fat and sugars in processed foods Limit saturated fatty acids and eliminate industrially produced trans fats in foods Controlled advertising of unhealthy food to children Increase availability and affordability of fruit and vegetables to promote intake Offer of healthy food in schools and other public institutions and through social support programmes Economic interventions to drive food consumption (taxes, subsidies) Food security Desired outcome Reduced tobacco use and consumption, including secondhand smoke exposure and reduced production of tobacco and tobacco products Decreased physical inactivity Reduced harmful use of alcohol Reduced use of salt, saturated fat and sugars Substitution of healthy foods for energy-dense micronutrient-poor foods Ninth plenary meeting, 27 May 2013 A66 / VR / 9 = = = 1 With the involvement of civil society and the private sector, as appropriate.