The Twenty-second World Health Assembly, Having considered the reports by the Director-General1 on long-term planning in the field of health and biennial programming and on the improvement and strengthening of the evaluation process, and the recommendations of the Executive Board thereon Having considered the proposals of the Director-General for taking the first steps towards a future presentation of a projection of the Organization's programme fora further year; and Taking account of the long-term results that can be expected of the new programme and budget information system, I 1. NOTES with satisfaction the proposals made for further strengthening the planning and evaluation processes of the World Health Organization and 2. STRESSES that realistic long-term planning of WHO's programme is dependent in large measure upon methodical health planning, the formulation of a budget based on programmes, and evaluation at the national level, and that the Director-General should continue to respond to requests for assistance in national health planning; 3. BELIEVES that the long-term planning of the Organization's programme can be achieved in successive stages; 4. REITERATES the importance of evaluation in guiding the formulation of programme policies and the planning and execution of the health programmes; 5. REQUESTS the Director-General to take the necessary steps to implement the proposals concerning long-term planning and the improvement and strengthening of the evaluation process, and to ensure dissemination to any member of the Executive Board of such available evaluation data on projects as currently exist and that member may request; 6. REQUESTS the Director-General to evaluate the most appropriate approaches for the integration of health planning studies with the educational programmes in medical schools; 7. REQUESTS the Director-General to continue to collaborate actively in the development of the health sector of the broad international strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade 8. REQUESTS the Director-General to explore further the feasibility of providing appropriate long-term financial indicators and report thereon to the forty-fifth session of the Executive Board; and 9. REQUESTS the Director-General to ask Member States to send to WHO their observations and recommendations on questions of long-term planning in the field of health and the establishment of anew general programme of work of WHO for 1972-1976; II 1. DECIDES that, in principle, the World Health Organization should adopt A system of biennial programming; 2. CONSIDERS that, as A first step, the Director-General should: 2.1 Provide in his annually proposed programme and budget estimates additional information which would, for example, include for 1971 : (i) an appendix containing a summary by major programme heading for 19691970 and 1971 with a projection for 1972 based on the indication of the governments' priorities for future programmes of WHO assistance as known at the time of the preparation of the programme and budget estimates, and on other factors such as the trends in the requirements for the major programmes of the Organization; and (ii) an appendix containing a summary by appropriation section identifying the operating programme by individual regions and headquarters, regional offices, administrative services, etc., for 19691970 and 1971with a projection of the estimates for 1972; 2.2 Provide in each annual financial report information relating to budget performance, and showing in summary tables similar to those for paragraph 2.1 above : (i) budget estimates, both original' and revised, and (ii) actual obligations incurred; 3. RECOGNIZES the necessity of preserving flexibility to adjust programmes in the light of changes affecting the needs of the Organization and its Members; 4. REQUESTS the Director-General to continue to co-operate in inter-agency consultations on standardization of budget presentation and to keep the Executive Board informed of developments; and, further, 5. REQUESTS the Director-General to study the additional steps which might be taken towards A future more detailed projection of the Organization's programme and budget and to report thereon to the fortyseventh session of the Executive Board. Handb. Res., 10th ed., 1.6.1.4 Fourteenth plenary meeting, 25 July 1969 (Committee on Programme and Budget, seventh report)