 
 
 
SIXTY-SEVENTH  WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY  WHA 67.24 
Agenda item  15.8 24 May 20 14 
Follow -up of the Recife Political Declaration on 
Human Resources for Health: renewed 
commitments towards universal health coverage   
 
The Sixty -seventh World Health Assembly,  
Having considered the report on the follow -up of the Recife Political Declaration on  Human 
Resources for Health: renewed commitments towards universal health coverage,1 and the 
outcome do cument of the Third Global Forum on Human Resources for Health (Recife, Brazil, 
10–13 November 2013); 2 
Recognizing the leadership role of WHO in human resources for health, and the mandate given 
in this regard by resolution WHA63.16  on the WHO Global Code of Practice on the International 
Recruitment of Health Personnel , WHA66.23 on transform ing health workforce education in support 
of universal health coverage, WHO ’s global policy recommendations on increasing access to health 
worker s in remote and rural areas through improved retention3 (2010 ) and  WHO ’s guideline s on 
transforming and scaling up health professional s’ education and training  (2013 );4 
Recalling the commitment to attain universal health coverage and the need for an improved 
health workforce to achieve it; 
Reaffirming the importance of the Kampala Declaration and Agenda for Global Action, as well 
as the WHO Global Code of Practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel, and 
recognizing the need to renew these commitments and take them forward in light of new 
developments with a view to progressing towards universal health coverage,  
1. ENDORSES the call to action in the Recife Political Declaration on Human Resources for 
Health: renewed commitments towards  universal health coverage;  
2. WELCOMES the commitments made by Member States in the Recife Political Declaration on 
Human Resources for Health: renewed commitments towards universal health coverage;  
                                                   
1 Document A67/34.  
2 Document A67/34, Annex . 
3 Increasing access to health workers in remote and rural areas through improved retention: global policy 
recommendations. Geneva: World  Health Organization; 2010.  
4 Transforming and scaling up health professionals’ education and training:  World Health Organization 
guidelines  2013. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013.  WHA6 7.24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 3. URGES Member States1 to implement, as appropriate, an d in a ccordance with national and 
subnational responsibilities, the commitments made in the Recife Political Declaration on Human 
Resources for Health: renewed commitments towards universal health coverage;  
4. REQUESTS the Director -General : 
(1) to take int o consideration the Recife Political Declaration on Human Resources for 
Health: renewed commitments towards universal health cov erage in the future work of WHO;  
(2) to develop and submit a new global strategy for human resource s for health for 
consideratio n by the Sixty -ninth  World Health Assembly.  
 
Ninth plenary meeting, 24 May 2014  
A67/VR/ 9 
 
=     =     =  
                                                   
1 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations.  