WHA6.44  Régionalisation 
The Sixth  World  Health  Assembly 
I. 1.  REAFFIRMS  the principles  which  prompted  the  establishment  of regionalization  ; 
2. FINDS  that  they  have  been  justified  in practice  ; 
3. EXPRESSES  its satisfaction  with  the development  of the organizational  structure  and  functioning  of the 
regional  offices  ; 
4. REQUESTS  the  Executive  Board  periodically  to review  and  report  on the  progress  and  problems  of 
regionalization  ; 
5. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to provide,  through  the staff  at headquarters,  guidance  to the regional 
offices  on specific  programmes,  assistance  in long-term  planning,  and  control  and  co-ordination  of regional 
programmes  to ensure  that  they  conform  to the principles  and  policies  established  by the Health  Assembly, 
the Executive  Board  and  the Director-General  ; 
6. RECOMMENDS  the interchange  of staff  of the Secretariat  among  regions  and  between  headquarters  and 
regions  ; 
7. NOTES  that  variations  in constitution,  objectives  and  organization  produce  wide  differences  in the nature 
and extent  of decentralization  in the United  Nations,  the World  Health  Organization  and  other  specialized 
agencies,  and  that  such  differences  often  impede  effective  co-operation  in field  programmes  ; 
8. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to bring  this  problem  to the attention  of the Secretary-General  of the 
United  Nations  and  to provide  the utmost  co-operation  in finding  a solution  ; and 
9. EXPRESSES  its belief  that  the  undoubted  advantages  of regionalization  can  be fully  achieved  only  by 
continued  mutual  confidence  and  co-operation  among  all those  to whom  the Constitution  and  the Health 
Assembly  have  delegated  responsibility  and  authority  ; 
II. Realizing  the difficulties  of foreseeing  at this  time  the amounts  of budgetary  contributions  and  the 
financial  state  of the Organization  in 1955  ; 
In view  of the fact  that  the authorization  of the payment  of travel  expenses  by WHO  for members 
of regional  committees  would  not go into  effect  until  1955,  according  to Part  II of the resolution  proposed 
by the Executive  Board  (EB11.R50), 
DECIDES  to invite  regional  committees  to study  and  comment  on this  proposal  and  to postpone  its 
consideration  until  the Seventh  World  Health  Assembly  ; 
III. DECIDES  that  Part  III of the  proposed  resolution,  on the  question  of holding  sessions  of regional 
committees  at regional  headquarters,  shall  also  be referred  for comment  to the regional  committees  and 
further  considered  at the Seventh  World  Health  Assembly. 
(Third  report  of the  Committee  on  Administration, 
Finance  and  Legal  Matters,  adopted  at the  ninth 
plenary  meeting,  20  May  1953) 
