The Thirty-ninth World Health Assembly, Recalling resolution WHA37.33 on the rational use of drugs Having considered the reports by the Director-General oil the conference of experts on the rational use of drugs held in Nairobi in November 19851 and on WHO'S revised drug strategy;^ Noting that the Director-General1 s summing up of the Conference^ forms the basis of this revised drug strategy; 1. THANKS the participants in the conference for their valuable suggestions 2. DECIDES that WHO will assume its responsibilities as listed in the Director-General1 s summing up of the conference;^ 3. URGES all concerned parties- governments, the pharmaceutical industry, health personnel involved in prescription, dispensing, supply and distribution, universities and other teaching institutions, professional nongovernmental organizations, the public, patients' and consumer groups and the mass media- to assume their responsibilities as listed in the Director-General1 s summing up of the conference;^ 4. URGES all Member States in a position to do so to support developing countries technically and financially in fulfilling responsibilities mentioned above, and thanks those Member States already doing so; 5. INVITES United Nations agencies, programmes and funds concerned, development agencies and voluntary organizations to support developing countries to the same end, and thanks those already doing so; 6. ENDORSES the WHO revised drug strategy, annexed to this resolution; 7. REQUESTS the Executive Board to monitor its implementation; 8. REQUESTS the Director-General2 (1) to publish the report on the Nairobi conference in all official languages and ensure its wide dissemination; (2) to implement the WHO revised drug strategy as endorsed by this Health Assembly by making optimal use of all available resources to this end, seeking extrabudgetary resources in addition to those in the regular budget 1 Document A39 / 12. 2 Document A39 / 13. 3 Document A39 / 12 Part I. ^JW M RESOLUTION OF THE WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY RSOLUTION DE L'AS S F \T L EM N DA I, E DE LA SANT RESOLUCION DE LA ASAMBLEA MUNDIAL DE LA SALUD i WHA39.27 page 2 (3) to report to the Executive Board and the Forty-first World Health Assembly on progress made and problems encountered in implementing the WHO revised drug strategy, including suggestions for modifying it if necessary in the light of experience. Fifteenth plenary meeting, 16 May 1986 A39 / VR / 15