. ' '. ... , : ' : V . ..- : .... ' ' .' The Thirty-ninth World Health Assembly, Recalling rsolutions WHA37.23 and WHA3327 on the abuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances, adopted by the Thirty-seventh and Thirty-third World Health Assemblies, and resolution EB73.R11 on the same subject Having examined the Director-General1 s progress report^- on WHO activities in 1985 and 1986 on the abuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances, and the Director-General's report2 on the Conference of Ministers of Health on Narcotic and Psychotropic Drug Misuse, Ixeld in London, United Kirigdom, from 18 to 20 March 1986; f' Noting with grave concern the dramatic increase of serious health and social problems related to misuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances; Affirming that health concerns in relation to the misuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances need tobe given greater prominence and emphasis within the international drug control system; Considering that there is an urgent need to intensify efforts and programme activities concerned with the individual and community health aspects of problems related to the misuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances, including prevention, treatment, training and research; Noting with satisfaction the continued development of WHO'S activities in this field, including its response to international treaty obligations; 1. URGES Member States to continue to: (1) develop and implement national policy to address the health problems related to the misuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances through prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation, and including training programmes and research, and to evolve mechanisms which will promote the coordination of the work of relevant government sectors and community organizations concerned with tackling drug abuse; (2) develop ways to assess and monitor trends in the development of these problems and evaluate the effectiveness of programmes launched to combat them; (3) promote social and educational measures and encourage and support community action so as to reduce the inappropriate demand for narcotic and psychotropic substances (4) encourage the establishment and development of appropriate services to provide for the treatment of patients with drug-related problems, and their integration within existing health and mental health services, particularly at the primary health care level, and with social services and those provided by nongovernmental organizations 1 Document A39 / 10. 2 Document A39 / 10 Add.l. WHA39.26 page 2 (5) cooperate in activities under International Conventions on narcotic and psychotropic substances, and any other programmes directed towards the control of health problems related to the misuse of such substances. 2. REQUESTS the Regional Committees to review the extent and nature of health problems related to the abuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances in their respective regions and to decide on ways of ensuring cooperation among countries in this area; 3. REQUESTS the Director-General to: (1) further develop the Organization's activities aiming to control health problems related to the misuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances, and to formulate a plan of action. (2) facilitate cooperation in this field among different WHO regions (3) consider devoting a World Health Day to this topic; (4) convey to the Secretary-General of the United Nations the need to increase the proportion of the financial support provided by the United Nations budget for the whole field of control of drug abuse given for activities and programmes dealing with health and related social problems caused by the misuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances. (5) report to the United Nations Conference in 1987 on drug abuse and illicit traffic, WHO's activities and plans to combat health problems related to the abuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances. 4. REQUESTS the Executive Board to consider selecting the theme of Public Health Problems Related to the Abuse of Narcotic and Psychotropic Substances as a subject for Technical Discussion during a World Health Assembly at the earliest opportunity. Fifteenth plenary meeting, 16 May 1986 A39 / VR / 15