WHA13.59  Additional  Regulations  of 19 May  1960  amending  the International  Sanitary  Regulations  with respect  to the Health  Part  of the Aircraft  General  Declaration 
The Thirteenth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Considering  the  need  for the amendment  of certain  of the provisions  of the International  Sanitary 
Regulations,  as adopted  by the Fourth  World  Health  Assembly  on 25 May  1951,  with  respect  to the health 
part of the  Aircraft  General  Declaration; 
Having  regard  to Articles  2 (k), 21 (a) and  22 of the Constitution  of the World  Health  Organization, 
ADOPTS,  this  19th  day  of May  1960,  the following  additional  regulations: 
ARTICLE  I 
In Article  97 and  Appendix  6 of the International  Sanitary  Regulations  (health  part  of the Aircraft 
General  Declaration),  there  shall  be made  the  following  amendments: 
Article  97 
In the first  paragraph,  delete  the  words  " a copy  of that  part  of the Aircraft  General  Declaration 
which  contains  the health  information  specified  in Appendix  6 " and  insert  the words:  " the health  part  of 
the Aircraft  General  Declaration  which  shall  conform  with  the model  specified  in Appendix  6 ". 
Appendix  6 — Health  Part  of the Aircraft  General  Declaration 
Delete  the  text  and  replace  by: 
" Declaration  of Health 
Persons  on board  known  to be suffering  from  illness  other  than  airsickness  or the  effects  of 
accidents,  as well  as those  cases  of illness  disembarked  during  the flight 
Any other  condition  on board  which  may  lead  to the spread  of disease 
Details  of each  disinsecting  or sanitary  treatment  (place,  date,  time,  method)  during  the flight. 
If no disinsecting  has been  carried  out during  the flight  give  details  of most  recent  disinsecting 
SGD.,  if required, 
Crew  member  concerned  " ARTICLE  II 
The period  provided  in execution  of Article  22 of the Constitution  of the Organization  for rejection 
or reservation  shall  be three  months  from  the date  of the notification  by the  Director-General  of the 
adoption  of these  Additional  Regulations  by the World  Health  Assembly. 
ARTICLE  III 
These  Additional  Regulations  shall  come  into  force  on the first  day  of January  1961. 
ARTICLE  IV 
The following  final  provisions  of the International  Sanitary  Regulations  shall  apply  to these  Additional 
Regulations:  paragraph  3 of Article  106,  paragraphs  1 and 2 and  the first  sentence  of paragraph  5 of 107, 
108 and  paragraph  2 of 109,  substituting  the date  mentioned  in Article  III of these  Additional  Regulations 
for that  mentioned  therein,  110  to 113  inclusive. 
IN FAITH  WHEREOF  we have  set our  hands  at Geneva  this  19th  day  of May  1960. 
H. B. TURBOTT 
President  of the Thirteenth  World  Health  Assembly 
M. G. CANDAU 
Director-General  of the World  Health  Organization 
Handb.  Res.,  5th  ed.,  1.5.7.5  Eleventh  plenary  meeting,  19 May  1960  (section  2 of 
the seventh  report  of the Committee  on  Programme 
and Budget) 
