 
 
 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH  WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY  WHA 68.9 
Agenda item 11.2 26 May 20 15 
Framework of engagement with non -State actors  
 
The Sixty -eighth World Health Assembly,  
Having considered the reports on the draft framework of engagement with non -State actors and 
the revised draft framework of engagement with non -State actors;1 
Acknowledging the importance to WHO of engagement with non -State actors that benefits from 
a robust management of the r isks of such engagement for all three levels of the Organization,  
1. WELCOMES the consensus reflected in many parts of the draft framework of engagement with 
non-State actors, including in its introduction, rationale, principles, benefits of engagement, ri sks of 
engagement, non -State actors, types of interaction as contained in the A ppendix ; 
2. REQUESTS the Director General:  
(1) to convene as soon as possible, and no later than October 2015, an open -ended 
intergovernmental meeting to finalize the draft fram ework of engagement with non -State actors 
on the basis of progress made during the Sixty -eighth World Health Assembly, as reflected in 
the A ppendix ; 
(2) to submit the finalized draft framework of engagement with non -State actors for adoption 
to the Sixty -ninth World Health Assembly, through the Executive Board at its 138th session;  
(3) to develop the register of non -State actors in time for the Sixty -ninth World Health 
Assembly, taking into account progress made on the draft framework of engagement with non State actors.  
  
                                                      
1 Documents A68/5, Annex and A68/53.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 ANNEX  
Draft resolution  
[The Sixty -ninth World Health Assembly,  
PP1 Having considered the report on the framework of engagement with non -State actors and 
the revised draft framework of engagement with non -State actors,  
PP2 Recalling resolution WHA64.2 and decision WHA65(9) on WHO reform, and decisions 
WHA67(14) and EB136(3) on a framework of en gagement with non -State actors,  
PP3 Acknowledging the importance to WHO of engagement with non -State actors that 
benefits from a robust managem ent of the risks of such engagement for all three levels of the 
Organization,  
(OP1) 1. APPROVES the Framework of Engagement with non -State actors, as set out in the 
Annex to this resolution;1 
(OP2)   2. DECIDES that the Framework of Engagement with non-State actors shall replace the 
Principles governing relations between the World Health Organization and nongovernmental 
organizations2 and Guidelines on interaction with commercial enterprises to achieve health outcomes;3 
(OP3)   3. REQUESTS the Directo r General:  
(1) to implement the Framework of Engagement with non -State actors;  
(2) to establish the register of non -State actors in time for the Sixty -ninth World Health 
Assembly;  
(3) to report on the implementation of the Framework of Engagement with non -State 
actors to the Executive Board at each of its January sessions under a standing agenda 
item, through the Programme Budget and Administration Committee;  
(4) to conduct in 2018 an evaluation of the implementation of the Framework of 
Engagement with non -State actors and its impact on the work of WHO with a view to 
submitting the results, together with any proposals for revisions of the Framework, to the 
Executive Board in January 2019, through the Programme Budget and Administration 
Committee.]  
  
                                                      
1 Consisting of an overarching framework and four specific policies on engagement with nongovernmental 
organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations and academic institutions.  
2 Adopted in resolution WHA40.25 . See Basic documents, 48th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014.  
3 Document EB107/20 , Annex.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3 Appendix  
[DRAFT] FRAMEWORK OF  ENGAGEMENT WITH NON -STATE ACTORS  
DRAFT OVERARCHING FR AMEWORK OF ENGAGEMEN T 
WITH NON -STATE ACTORS  
*DOCUMENT AS AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE SI XTY -EIGHTH WORLD 
HEALTH ASSEMBLY  
REFLECTING THE WORK OF THE DRAFTING GROU P OF COMMITTEE A  
EXPLAN ATION OF COLOUR CODE:  
TEXT HIGHLIGHTED IN GREEN  HAS BEEN AGREED AD REFERENDUM. TEXT 
HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW  WAS CONSIDERED BUT NO CONSENSUS WAS REACHED. 
TEXT HIGHLIGHTED IN GREY  IS THE CHAIRPERSON’S PROPOSAL FOR A COMPROMISE 
CONCERNING THE PRECEDING YELLOW H IGHLIGHTED PARAGRAPH. TEXT NOT 
HIGHLIGHTED HAS NOT BEEN CONSIDERED YET.  
INTRODUCTION  
1. The overarching framework for engagement with non -State actors and the WHO policy and 
operational procedures on management of engagement with non -State actors apply to all engagements 
with non -State actors at all levels of the Organization,1 whereas the four specific policies and 
operational procedures on engagement are limited in application to, respectively, nongovernmental 
organizations, private sector entities, phila nthropic foundations and academic institutions.  
ENGAGEMENT: RATIONAL E, PRINCIPLES, BENEF ITS AND RISKS  
Rationale  
2. WHO is the directing and coordinating authority in global health in line with its constitutional 
mandate. The global health landscape has bec ome more complex in many respects; among other 
things, there has been an increase in the number of players including non -State actors. WHO engages 
with non -State actors in view of their significant role in global health for the advancement and 
promotion of  public health and to encourage non -State actors to use their own activities to protect and 
promote public health.  
                                                      
1 Headquarters, regional offices and country offices, entities established under WHO, as well as hosted partnerships. 
For hosted partnerships the framework of engagement with non -State  actors will apply, subject to  the policy on WHO’s 
engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements (resolution WHA63.10). Hosted, as well as external 
partnerships are explained in paragraph 48.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 3. The functions of WHO, as set out in Article 2 of its Constitution, include: to act as the directing 
and coordinating authority on interna tional health work; to establish and maintain effective 
collaboration with diverse organizations; and to promote cooperation among scientific and 
professional groups which contribute to the advancement of health. The Constitution further mandates 
the Healt h Assembly or the Executive Board, and the Director -General, to enter into specific 
engagements with other organizations.1 WHO shall, in relation to non -State actors, act in conformity 
with its Constitution and resolutions and decisions of the Health Assem bly, and bearing in mind those 
of the United Nations General Assembly or the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, if 
applicable.  
4. (DELETED ) 
5. WHO’s engagement with non -State actors supports implementation of the Organization’s 
policies and recommendations as decided by the governing bodies, as well as the application of 
WHO’s technical norms and standards.  Such an effective engagement with non -State actors at global, 
regional and country levels, [in mutual respect,] also calls for due diligence and transparency measures 
applicable to non -State actors under this framework [, while exercising [particular] / [appropriate] 
caution when engaging with  particular [industries] [and] / [entities].]( DEL ) In order to be able to 
strengthen its engagement with non -State actors for the benefit and interest of global public health, 
WHO needs simultaneously to strengthen its management of the associated potentia l risks. This 
requires a robust framework  that enables engagement and serves also as an instrument to identify the 
risks, balancing them against the expected benefits, while protecting and preserving WHO’s integrity, 
reputation and public health mandate.  
Principles  
6. WHO’s engagement with non -State actors is guided by the following overarching principles.  
Any engagement must:  
(a) demonstrate a clear benefit to public health;  
(a bis) conform with WHO’s Constitution, mandate and general programme of work   
(b) respect the intergovernmental nature of WHO and the decision -making authority of 
Member States as set out in the WHO’s Constitution;  
(c) support and enhance, without compromising, the scientific and evidence -based approach 
that underpins WHO’s work;  
(d) Protect WHO from any undue influence, in particular on the processes in setting and 
applying policies, norms and standards;2  
(e) not compromise WHO’s integrity, independence, credibility and reputation;  
                                                      
1 WHO Constitution, A rticles 18, 33, 41 and 71 . 
2 Policies, norms and standard setting includes information gathering, preparation for, elaboration of and the decision 
on the normative text.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  5 (f)  be effectively managed, including by, where  possible avoiding conflict of interest1 and 
other forms of  risks to WHO;    
(g) be conducted on the basis of transparency, openness, inclusiveness, accountability, 
integrity and mutual respect;  
Benefits of engagement  
7.  WHO’s engagement with non -State actors can bring important benefits to global public health 
and to the Organization itself in fulfilment of its constitutional principles and objectives, including its 
directing and coordinating role in global health. Engagements range from major, longer -term 
collaborations to smaller, briefer interactions. Benefits arising from such engagement can also include:  
a) (DELETED)  
b) the contribution of non -State actors to the work of WHO  
c) the influence that WHO can have on non -State actors to enhance their imp act on global public 
health or to influence the social, economic and environmental determinants of health  
d) the influence that WHO can have on non -State actors’ compliance with WHO’s policies, norms and 
standards  
e) the additional resources non -State acto rs can contribute to WHO’s work   
f) the wider dissemination of and adherence by non -State actors to WHO’s policies, norms and 
standards  
[g) non -State actors engaging with WHO [fully implement]/[more readily conform with] WHO public 
health policies [, nor ms and standards], including in their own activities in the areas of food safety, 
chemical safety, ethical promotion of medicinal drug products, tobacco control and others.]  
OR 
g) alt [Improved understanding of and conformity with WHO’s policies, norms and  standards.] [by 
non-State actors]  
Risks of engagement  
8 WHO’s engagement with non -State actors can involve risks which need to be effectively 
managed and, where appropriate, avoided. Risks relate inter alia to the occurrence in particular of the 
following:  
(a) conflicts of interest;  
(b) undue or improper influence exercised by a non -State actor on WHO’s work, especially 
in, but not limited to, policies, norms and standard setting;2  
(c) a negative impact on WHO’s integrity, independence, reputatio n and credibility; and 
public health mandate;  
                                                      
1 As set out in paragraphs 23 to 26)  
2 Policies, norms and standard setting includes information gatherin g, preparation for, elaboration of and the decision 
on the normative text.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 (d) the engagement being primarily used to serve the interests of the non -State actor 
concerned with limited or no benefits for WHO and public health;  
(e) the engagement conferring an endorsement of the non -State actor’s name, brand, product, 
views or activity;1  
(f) the whitewashing of a non -State actor’s image through an engagement with WHO;  
(g) a competitive advantage for a non -State actor.  
NON -STATE ACTORS  
9. For the purpose of this framework, [a non-State a ctor is an entity that [operates independently 
from the government]/[is not part of any State or public institution. N] (DEL) non -State actors include 
nongovernmental organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations and academic 
institutio ns. [other international organizations]  
CHAIR’s PROPOSAL  
9. alt   For the purpose of this framework, a non-State actor  is an entity that operates independently 
from the government is not part of any State or public institution. Non -State actors include 
nong overnmental organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations and academic 
institutions.  
10 Nongovernmental organizations  are non -profit entities that operate independently of 
governments. They are usually membership -based, with non -profit entities or individuals as members 
exercising voting rights in relation to the policies of the nongovernmental organization, or are 
otherwise constituted with non -profit, public -interest goals. They are free from concerns which are 
primarily of a private, commercial or profit -making nature. They could include, for example, 
grassroots community organizations, civil society groups and networks, faith -based organizations, 
professional groups, disease -specific groups, and patient groups.  
11. Private sector  entities are commercial enterprises, that is to say businesses that are intended to 
make a profit for their owners. The term also refers to entities that represent, or are governed or 
controlled by, private sector entities. This group includes (but is not limi ted to) business associations 
representing commercial enterprises, entities not “at arm’s length”2 from their commercial sponsors, 
and partially or fully State -owned commercial enterprises acting like private sector entities.  
International business associations  are private sector entities that do not intend to make a 
profit for themselves but represent the interests of their members, which are commercial enterprises  
and/or national or other business associations. For the purposes of this framework, t hey shall have the 
authority to speak for their members through their authorized representatives. Their members shall 
exercise voting rights in relation to the policies of the international business association.  
                                                      
1 Endorsement does not include established processes such as prequalifications or the WHO Pesticide Evaluation 
Scheme (WHOPES).  
2 An entity is “at arm’s length” from another entity if it is independent from the other entity, does not take 
instructions and is clearly not influenced or clearly not reasonably perceived to be influenced in its decisions and work by the 
other entity.     WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  7 12. Philanthropic foundations  are non -profit  entities whose assets are provided by donors and 
whose income is spent on socially useful purposes. They shall be clearly independent from any private 
sector entity in their governance and decision -making.  
13 Academic institutions  are entities engaged in the pursuit and dissemination of knowledge 
through research, education and training.1  
14 For each of the four groups of entities above, the overarching framework and the respective 
specific policy on engagement apply. WHO will determine through its due di ligence if a non -State 
actor is subject to the influence of private sector entities to the extent that the non -State actor has to be 
considered itself a private sector entity. Such influence can be exerted through financing, participation 
in decision makin g or otherwise. Provided that the decision -making processes and bodies of a non State actor remain independent of undue influence from the private sector, WHO can decide to 
consider the entity as a nongovernmental organization, a philanthropic foundation o r an academic 
institution, but may apply relevant provisions of the WHO’s policy and operational procedures on 
engagement with private sector entities, such as not accepting financial and in -kind contributions for 
use in the normative work.   
TYPES OF INTER ACTION  
15. The following are categories of interaction in which WHO engages with non -State actors. Each 
type of interaction can take different forms, be subject to different levels of risk and can involve 
different levels and types of engagement by the Org anization.  
Participation  
16. Non-State actors may attend various types of meetings organized by WHO. The nature of their 
participation depends on the type of meeting concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation 
of non -State actors in consultati ons, hearings, and other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by 
the WHO governing bodies or by the Secretariat.  
(a) Meetings of the governing bodies . This type involves sessions of the World Health 
Assembly, the Executive Board and the six regional  committees. Non -State actors’ participation 
is determined by the governing bodies’ respective rules of procedure, policies and practices as 
well as the section of this framework that deals with official relations.  
(b) Consultations . This type includes any  physical or virtual meeting, other than governing 
body sessions, organized for the purpose of exchanging information and views. Inputs received 
from non -State actors shall be made publicly available, wherever possible.  
(c) Hearings . These are meetings in which the participants can present their evidence, views 
and positions and be questioned about them but do not enter into a debate. Hearings can be 
electronic or in person. All interested entities should be invited on the same basis. The 
participants and p ositions presented during hearings shall be documented and shall be made 
publicly available, wherever possible.  
                                                      
1 This can include think tanks which are policy -orient ed institutions, as long as they primarily perform research; 
while international associations of academic institutions are considered as non -governmental organizations, subject to 
paragraph 14.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 (d) Other meetings . These are meetings that are not part of the process of setting policies or 
norms; examples include information meetings, bri efings, scientific conferences, and platforms 
for coordination of actors.  
17. WHO’s involvement in meetings organized wholly or partly by a non -State actor can – subject 
to the provisions of this framework, its four specific policies and operational proced ures, and other 
applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures – consist of any one of the following possibilities:  
• WHO jointly organizes the meeting with the non -State actor  
• WHO cosponsors a meeting1 organized by the non -State actor  
• WHO staff make a prese ntation or act as panellists at a meeting organized by the non -State 
actor  
• WHO staff attend a meeting organized by a non -State actor.  
Resources  
18. Resources [can be] / [include] funds, [personnel] OR [personnel for technical work or 
implementation of WHO ’s programmes and policies and emergency response,] or in -kind 
contributions. In -kind contributions include donations of medicines and other goods and free provision 
of services.  
OR 
 
New text to be proposed  
 
AND/OR  
 
18bis [SPECIFY TYPE OF PERSONNEL]  
 
AND/OR  
 
[ADD FOOTNOTE SPECIFYING PERSONNEL]  
[ADD 18ter. The WHO could establish ceiling in the voluntary contribution from non -state 
actors. Any contribution beyond that amount should go to the core voluntary fund which gives 
enough freedom to the Secretar iat to allocate resources to underfunded programmes. The 
Member States assessed contributions should be allocated to the programmes that are 
underfunded under voluntary contribution] /DELETE  
CHAIR’s PROPOSAL  
18alt:  Resources include funds [ADD FOOTNOTE: [No n-State actors are urged to  provide their 
contribution, as flexible as possible, in line with the General Programme of Work and the Programme 
                                                      
1 Cosponsorship of a meeting means: (1) another entity has the  primary responsibility for organizing the meeting; and 
(2) WHO supports and contributes to the meeting and its proceedings; and (3) WHO reserves the right to clear the agenda of 
the meeting, the list of participants and the outcome documents of the meetin g.   WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  9 Budget ] personnel, [ADD FOOTNOTE: Personnel does not comprise WHO staff members, or 
secondments to WHO. Personnel may be accepted for emergency work. Personnel must never be used 
for activities related to policies, norms and standard setting.] or in -kind contribution. In -kind 
contribution include donations of medicines and other goods and free provision of services (A DD 
FOOTNOTE TO PERSONNEL: short -term contribution by persons employed by non -State actors 
other than staff secondments [This personnel do not represent the WHO, do not have badge..])  (TO BE 
READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH PARAGRAPH 7 OF THE NGO POLICY, PARAGRAPH 15 OF 
THE PRIVATE SECTOR POLICY, PARAGRAPH 7 OF THE PHILANTHROPIC FOUNDATION 
POLICY AND PARAGRAPH 8 OF THE ACADEMIC INSTITUTION POLICY)  
ADD FOOTNOTE: [Non -State actors [are urged to] /[should] provide their [contribution]/[resources], 
as flexible [and non -earmarked] as possible. As any contribution, it has to be fully in line with the 
Programme Budget]  
OR 
[ADD FOOTNOTE: [Resources may only be provided in line with the General Programme  of Work 
and Programme Budget and should be as flexible as possible]  
 OR  
[WHO shall make available a detailed information with regard to the financial or in -kind resources 
received from non -State actors, including the name of donor, amount, the purpose an d allocation.] (TO 
MOVE AFTER PARA 38)  
[ADD FOOTNOTE: Personnel does not comprise WHO staff members, or secondments to WHO. 
Personnel may be accepted for emergency work. Personnel must never be used for activities related to 
policies, norms and standard se tting.] or in -kind contribution . 
Evidence  
19. For the purposes of this framework, evidence refers to inputs based on up -to-date information, 
knowledge on technical issues, and consideration of scientific facts, independently analysed by WHO. 
Evidence gener ation by WHO includes information gathering, analysis, generation of information and 
the management of knowledge and research. Non -State actors may provide their up -to-date 
information and knowledge on technical issues, and share their experience with WHO,  as appropriate, 
subject to the provisions of this framework, its four specific policies and operational procedures, and 
other applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly 
available, as appropriate, wherever poss ible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly 
available.  
Advocacy  
20. Advocacy is action to increase awareness of health issues, including issues that receive 
insufficient attention; to change behaviours in the interest of public health; and to foster collaboration 
and greater coherence between non -State actors where joint action is required.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 Technical collaboration  
21. For the purpose of this framework, technical collaboration refers to other collaboration with 
non-State actors, as appropriate, in activities that fall within the General Programme of Work, 
including:  
• product development  
• capacity -building  
• operational coll aboration in emergencies  
• contributing to the implementation of WHO’s policies.  
MANAGEMENT OF CONFLI CT OF INTEREST AND O THER RISKS OF 
ENGAGEMENT  
22. Managing, including by, where appropriate, avoiding, conflict of interest and other risks of 
engagement requ ires a series of steps, as set out below:1 
• WHO needs to know the non -State actors that it engages with. Therefore each non -State actor 
is required to provide all relevant2 information about itself and its activities, following which 
WHO conducts the necess ary due diligence.  
• WHO conducts a risk assessment in order to identify the specific risks of engagement 
associated with each engagement with a non -State actor.  
• Risks of engagement need to be managed and communicated coherently in each of the three 
levels o f the Organization and throughout the Organization. To that end, WHO manages 
engagement through a single, Organization -wide electronic tool. 3.  
• [Member States [need to] exercise oversight over WHO’s engagement with non -State actors.  
With this in mind, th e Director -General reports [annually] on engagement involving non -State 
actors] [[focusing in particular] / [including] on [policy -related] ( DEL ) challenges arising 
from the [proposals of engagement referred to the] Engagement Coordination Group] [and to 
the Director -General] / [and the decision by the DG not to enter into engagement] [and makes 
it a standing agenda item for the PBAC] [to the [regular meetings of the] Executive Board] 
through the Programme, Budget and Administration Committee [to the [regul ar meetings of 
the] Executive Board] [and makes all engagements publicly known through the register of 
non-State actors.] ( DEL ) (ADD FOOTNOTE: See paragraph 38ter)  
                                                      
1 The framework is designed to regulate institutional engagements; its implementation is closely coordinated with the 
implementation of other organizational policies regulating conflict of interest in respect of individuals (see paragraph 48).  
2 As defined in paragraph 38bis.  
3 WHO uses an electronic tool for managing engagement. As described in footnote 1 of paragraph 38, t he publicly 
visible part of the tool is the register of non -State actors; the tool also provides an electronic workflow for the internal 
management of engagement. A similar electronic tool is used for the management of individual conflicts of interest, in order 
to harmonize the implementation of the framework with the implementation of the policy on management of individual 
conflicts of interest for experts.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  11 OR SPLIT PARA INTO TWO:   
PROCESS  
CONTENT OF THE REPORT OF THE DG  
• NEW CHAIRs PROPOSAL : Member  States exercise oversight over WHO’s engagement 
with non -State actors in accordance with the provisions in paragraphs 64 and 65  
• [Request the Independent Expert Oversight Advisory Committee to report annually on 
WHO’s engagement with non -state actors, focu sing particularly on cases handled by the 
Engagement Coordination Group, and to provide Member States with the opportunity to 
discuss the report with the Chairperson of the Independent Expert Oversight Advisory 
Committee prior to its adoption by the Progra mme, Budget and Administration Committee] 
(DEL ) 
• 38ter. [In addition to the publicly available information, Member States have electronic 
access to a summary report on due diligence of non -State actor, and risk assessments and risk 
management on engagement.  Further details of the information used by the Secretariat to 
manage such engagement, can be made available for Member States to consult, upon request 
and as far as legally feasible.] [In addition, Member States have access to proposals of 
engagement refe rred to the Engagement Coordination Group and the Director -General.] 
(DEL ) 
[Conflict of interest] (NOTE: ENTIRE SECTION IN BRACKETS)  
23. A conflict of interest arises in circumstances where there is potential for a secondary interest (a 
vested interest in the outcome of WHO’s work in a given area) to unduly influence, or where it may be 
reasonably perceived to unduly influence, either the independence or objectivity of professional 
judgement or actions regarding a primary interest (WHO’s work) The existence  of conflict of interest 
in all its forms does not as such mean that improper action has occurred, but rather the risk of such 
improper action occurring. Conflicts of interest are not only financial, but can take other forms as well.   
23bis.   Individual co nflicts of interests within WHO are those involving experts, regardless of their 
status, and staff members; these are addressed in accordance with the policies listed under paragraph 
48 of the present framework.  
24. All institutions have multiple interests , which means that in engaging with non -State actors 
WHO is often faced with a combination of converging and conflicting interests. An institutional 
conflict of interest  is a situation where WHO’s primary interest as reflected in its Constitution may be 
unduly influenced by the conflicting interest of a non -State actor in a way that affects, or may 
reasonably be perceived to affect, the independence and objectivity of WHO’s work.  
25. In actively managing institutional conflict of interest and the other risk s of engagement 
mentioned in paragraph 8 above, WHO aims to avoid allowing the conflicting interests of a non -State 
actor to exert, or be reasonably perceived to exert, undue influence over the Organization’s decision making process or to prevail over its interests;  
26. For WHO, the potential risk of institutional conflicts of interest could be the highest in 
situations where the interest of non -State actors, in particular economic, commercial or financial, are 
in conflict with WHO’s public health policies,  constitutional mandate and interests, in particular the 
Organization’s independence and impartiality in setting policies, norms and standards.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 Due diligence and risk assessment  
27. When the possibility of entering into an engagement is being considered, the relevant technical 
unit in the Secretariat conducts an initial examination in order to establish whether such an 
engagement would be in the interest of the Organization and in lin e with the principles of WHO’s 
engagement with non -State actors in paragraph 6 and the priorities defined in the General Programme 
of Work and Programme budget. If this seems to be the case, the technical unit asks the non -State 
actor to provide its basic information. Using the Organization -wide electronic tool, the unit then 
complements this information with a description of the proposed engagement and its own assessment 
of the benefits and risks involved. This information is then transmitted to a speciali zed central unit 
which is responsible for analysing the information provided.  
28. Before engaging with any non -State actor, WHO, in order to preserve its integrity, conducts due 
diligence and risk assessment . Due diligence  refers to the steps taken by WHO  to find and verify 
relevant information on a non -State actor and to reach a clear understanding of its profile. While due 
diligence refers to the nature of the non -State actor concerned, risk assessment  refers to the 
assessment of a specific proposed enga gement with that non -State actor.  
29. Due diligence  combines a review of the information provided by the non -State actor, a search 
for information about the entity concerned from other sources, and an analysis of all the information 
obtained. This includes  a screening of different public, legal and commercial sources of information, 
including: media; the entity’s website companies’ analyst reports, directories and profiles; and public , 
legal and governmental sources.  
30. The core functions of due diligence  are to:  
• clarify the nature and purpose of the entity proposed to engage with WHO;  
• clarify the interest and objectives of the entity in engaging with WHO and what it expects in 
return;  
• determine the entity’s legal status, area of activities, membership, go vernance, sources of 
funding, constitution, statutes, and by -laws and affiliation;   
• define the main elements of the history and activities of the entity in terms of the following: 
health, human and labour issues; environmental, ethical and business issues;  reputation and 
image; and financial stability;  
• ORIGINAL CHAIR/S PROPOSAL Identify if the nature or activities of a NSA are 
incompatible with WHO/s work and mandate (e.g. links to be tobacco and arms industries) or 
if they require the Organization to exerc ise particular caution when engaging with the entity 
(e.g. links to other industries affecting human health or affected by WHO/s norms and 
standards (FOOTNOTE As described in paragraph 44)  
OR 
[Identify if the nature or activities of a non -State actor and t he type of relationship foreseen 
with WHO are incompatible with WHO’s work and mandate or if they require the 
Organization to exercise particular caution when engaging with the entity after applying the 
provisions of paragraphs 44 and 44bis]  
OR 
[Identify i f the nature or activities of a non -State actor are incompatible with WHO/s work   WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  13 and mandate or if they require the Organization to exercise particular caution when 
engaging …]  
31. Due diligence also allows the Secretariat for the purpose of its engagement  to categorize each 
non-State actor in relation to one of the four groups of non -State actors on the basis of its nature, 
objectives, governance, funding, independence and membership. This categorization is indicated in the 
register of non -State actors.  
32 Risks are the expression of the likelihood and potential impact of an event that would affect the 
Organization’s ability to achieve its objectives. A risk assessment  on a proposed engagement is 
conducted in addition to due diligence. This involves the ass essment of risks associated with an 
engagement with a non -State actor, in particular the risks described in paragraph 8 . 
Risk management  
33. Risk management  concerns the process leading to a management decision whereby the 
Secretariat decides explicitly and justifiably on entry into engagement,1 continuation of engagement, 
engagement with measures to mitigate risks, non -engagement or disengagement from an existing or 
planned engagement with non -State actors.  It is a management decision usually taken by t he unit 
engaging with the non -State actor.   
34. The specialized unit responsible for performing due diligence and risk assessment, as described 
in paragraph 27, formulates recommendations on the engagement -related options listed in paragraph 
33 above, alon g with reasons for such recommendations. If the proposing unit agrees with the 
recommendations, it implements them. If there are disagreements, they can be referred to the 
Engagement Coordination Group.  (FOOTNOTE: The Engagement Coordination Group  is a 
Secretariat group appointed by the Director -General that includes representation from regional 
offices.)  
35 The Engagement Coordination Group reviews referred proposals of engagement and 
recommends engagement, continuation of engagement, engagement with meas ures to mitigate risks, 
non-engagement or disengagement from an existing or planned engagement with non -State actors. In 
cases where the unit responsible for the engagement disagrees with this recommendation, the final 
decision rests with the Director -Gene ral. 
36. In line with WHO’s risk management framework,2 WHO takes a risk -management approach to 
engagement, only entering into an engagement with a non -State actor when the benefits in terms of 
direct or indirect contributions to public health and the fulf ilment of the Organization’s mandate as 
mentioned in paragraph 7 outweigh any residual risks of engagement as mentioned in paragraph 8, as 
well as the time and expense involved in establishing and maintaining the engagement.   
Transparency  
37. WHO’s interaction with non -State actors [is]/[should be] managed transparently. WHO 
provides the governing bodies with annual reports on its engagement with non -State actors [, including 
                                                      
1 Other than decisions related to official relations as set out in paragraphs 49 to 55.  
2 See document EB133/10.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 the work of the Engagement Coordination Group] and makes publicly ava ilable basic information on 
the non -State actors it engages with and the individual engagements concerned.  
OR 
[WHO’s interaction with non -State actors is managed transparently. WHO provides the governing 
bodies with annual reports on its engagement with non -State actors,  
[, including a summary information of the due diligence, risk assessment and risk management 
undertaken by the Secretariat.]   
including the work of the Engagement Coordination Group, and makes publicly available appropriate 
information on the non -State actors it engages with and the individual engagements concerned.]   
[, including a summary repo rt of the due diligence, risk assessment and risk management undertaken 
by the Secretariat.]   
(CHAIR’S PROPOSAL  TO KEEP THE CHAIRS TEXT ONLY)  
38. The WHO register of non -State actors  is an Internet -based, publicly available electronic tool 
used by the Sec retariat1 to document and coordinate engagement with non -State actors. It contains the 
main standard information provided by non -State actors2 and high -level descriptions of the 
engagement that WHO has with these actors ( FOOTNOTE 3) ; 
 [FOOTNOTE 3: The regi ster covers all three levels of the Organization – global, regional and country 
– and includes hosted partnerships and joint programmes]  
38bis.   Non-State actors engaging with WHO are required to provide information on their 
organization. This information includes: name, legal status, objective, governance structure, 
composition of main decision -making bodies, assets, annual income and funding sources, main 
relevant affiliations, webpage and one or more focal points for WHO contacts.  
38bis. [Non -State actor s engaging with WHO are required to provide information on their 
organization. This information includes: name, membership, legal status, objective, governance 
structure, composition of main decision -making bodies, assets, annual income and funding sources , 
main relevant affiliations, webpage and one or more focal points for WHO contacts.]  
38ter [The due diligence reports, [including] ( DELETE ) the decisions related to risk assessment and 
risk management [, including decisions to refuse to engage] / ( DELETE ) will be made available to 
Member States] [and relevant information shall be made publicly available] / ( DELETE ) OR [The due 
diligence and risk assessment reports, as well as decisions on engagement -related options listed in 
paragraph 33, will be made available to Member States.]  
38ter. OLD CHAIR’s TEXT: [In addition to the publicly available information, Member States have 
electronic access to a summary report on due diligence of non -State actor, and risk assessments and 
risk management on engagement. Further details of the information used by the Secretariat to manage 
                                                      
1 The register of non -State actors is the first level of a tool used by the Secretariat containing four levels of 
information: a publicly available level, a level made available to Member States, a working level for the Secretariat, and a 
level of confidential and sensitive information accessible to a limited number of individuals within the Secretariat . 
2 Informat ion on financial contributions received from non -State actors is documented in this register and in the 
Programme Budget web portal .   WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  15 such engagement, can be made available for Member States to consult, upon request and as far as 
legally feasible.]  
NEW CHAIR’s TEXT: 38ter. In addition to the publicly available informati on, Member States have 
electronic access to a summary report on due diligence of non -State actor, and risk assessments and 
risk management on engagement. [ Further details of the information used by the Secretariat to manage 
such engagement, can be made ava ilable for Member States to consult, upon request and as far as 
legally feasible.] Furthermore Member States can search for such information concerning cases 
considered by the engagement coordination group.  
AND  
[Add to resolution text a timeline for establ ishing and rolling out the register.]  
(CHAIR’S PROPOSAL  TO KEEP THE CHAIRS TEXT FOR 38, 38BIS AND 38TER. A 
REFERENCE TO THE ROLLING OUT OF THE REGISTER HAS BEEN ADDED TO THE 
RESOLUTION)  
39. When the Secretariat decides on an engagement with a non -State act or, a summary of the 
information submitted by that entity and held in the WHO register of non -State actors is made public. 
The accuracy of the information provided by the non -State actor and published in the register is the 
responsibility of the non -State actor concerned and does not constitute any form of endorsement by 
WHO.  
40. Non-State actors described in the register must update the information provided on themselves 
annually or upon the request of WHO. Information in the WHO register of non -State acto rs will be 
dated. Information on entities that are no longer engaged with WHO or that have not updated their 
information will be marked as “archived”. Archived information from the WHO register of non -State 
actors can be considered in relation to future ap plications for engagement, where relevant.  
41. WHO maintains a handbook to guide non -State actors in their interaction with WHO in line 
with this framework. A guide for staff is also maintained on the implementation of the framework for 
engagement with non -State actors.  
--------------------  
NOTE: The following text from paragraph 41 has been “parked” to serve as input for discussions on 
paragraph 48  
[this shall be applied in conjunction with the framework] ( DELETE :) 
OR 
[All the relevant WHO guidelines will be [aligned] / [coordinated] with this framework (FOOTNOTE: 
LIST ALL RELEVANT DOCUMENTS)]  
OR 
MOVE (AS FOOTNOTE) TO PARAGRAPH 48  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 (CHAIR’S PROPOSAL  DELETE ALL YELLOW AS IT WILL BE DISCUSSED IN 
PARAGRAPH 48)  
--------------------  
42. (DELETED)  
43. (DELETED)  
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS  
44. WHO does not engage with the tobacco or arms industries  [and its affiliates]  
(CHAIR’S PROPOSAL  TO ACCEPT “AND ITS AFFILIATES”)  
[Engagement with particular industries]/[non -state actors]  
44bis. [WHO will exercise [particular]/[appropriate]/( DEL ) caution [consistent with and subject to the 
rules of this framework] especially while conducting due diligence and risk assessment analyses when 
engaging with [non -state actors]/[other industries]/[private sector and some i ndustries] [negatively] 
affecting human health, or affected by the WHO’s norms and standards.][STOP HERE]  [[such 
as]/[for example][, but not limited to,] alcohol and food and beverage industries]  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL: 44 bis WHO will exercise particular cautio n especially while conducting due 
diligence and risk assessment when engaging with private sector entities or other non -State actors 
affected by WHO’s policies, norms and standards.  
Association with WHO’s name and emblem  
45. WHO’s name and emblem  are recog nized by the public as symbols of integrity and quality 
assurance. WHO’s name, acronym and emblem shall not, therefore, be used for, or in conjunction 
with, commercial, promotional marketing and advertisement purposes. Any use of the name or 
emblem needs a n explicit written authorization by the Director -General of WHO.1 
Secondments  
46. [WHO does not accept secondments from non -State actors.] / (DELETE:)  
OR 
[WHO does not accept secondments from private sector entities. Secondments from other types of 
non-State actors shall be accepted, in accordance with WHA67/7.]  
OR 
                                                      
1 See http://www.who.int/about/licensing/emblem/en/ .   WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  17 [WHO can accept secondments from non -State actors for technical work or implementation of WHO’s 
programmes and policies and emergency response.]  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL:  46. WHO does not accept secondmen ts from non -State actors  
RELATION OF THE FRAM EWORK TO WHO’S OTHER  POLICIES  
47. This framework replaces the Principles Governing Relations between the World Health 
Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations1 and the Guidelines on interaction with commercial 
enterprises to achieve health outcomes (noted by the Executive Board).2 
48. The implementation of the framework for engagement with non -State actors  is coordinated [and 
aligned] with the [related polices l isted below. In the case of conflict, this framework will prevail.]/ 
[following related policies],  which remain valid. [In the case of conflict, this framework shall prevail 
over the policies listed below] : 
OR 
[The implementation of the policies listed below will be coordinated and aligned with the 
framework of engagement with non -State actors.]  
[[(a) WHO’s engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements3]  
[(i) Hosted partnerships derive their legal personality from WHO and are subje ct to the 
organizations rules and regulations. Therefore the framework applies to their engagement with 
non-State actors. They have a formal governance structure, separate from that of the WHO 
governing bodies, in which decisions are taken on direction, wo rk plans and budgets; and their 
programmatic accountability frameworks are also independent from those of the Organization. 
In the same way the framework applies to other hosted entities which are subject to the 
Organizations Rules and Regulations .] 
[(ii) WHO’s involvement in external partnerships is regulated by the policy on WHO’s 
engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements. For the management of 
risks of WHO’s engagement in these partnerships the present framework for engagement w ith 
non-State actors  applies.]   
OR  
[(a) Partnerships and entities hosted by WHO will be subject to this framework as applicable for 
WHO.]  
[For hosted partnership the framework of engagement with non -State actors will apply, subject 
to WHO’s policy on enga gement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements 
(resolution WHA63.10).]  
                                                      
1 Basic documents, 47 th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2009: 81 –86. 
2 See document EB107/2001/REC/2 , summary record of the twelfth meeting.  
3 Endorsed by the Health Assembly in resolution WHA63.10  on partnerships.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 (b) The management of WHO’s relations with individual experts is regulated by the 
Regulations for Expert Advisory Panels and Committees1 and the Guidelines for Declarat ion of 
Interests (WHO Experts).  
(c) The Organization’s Staff Regulations and Staff Rules and in particular the provisions of 
declaration of interest therein: according to Article 1.1 of the Staff Regulations of the World 
Health Organization, all staff memb ers “pledge themselves to discharge their functions and to 
regulate their conduct with the interests of the World Health Organization only in view.”  
(d) Scientific collaborations are regulated by the Regulations for Study and Scientific 
Groups, Collaborati ng Institutions and other Mechanisms of Collaboration.2 
(e) The procurement of goods and services is regulated by the Financial Rules and Financial 
Regulations;3 it not covered by the framework for engagement with non -State actors, although 
pro-bono contri butions from non -State actors are covered.  
(f) Like any other financing of WHO, financing from non -State actors should be considered 
as part of the financing dialogue and is regulated by the Financial Rules and Financial 
Regulations; the decision on accept ing such a financial contribution is regulated by this 
framework.  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL:  ACCEPT TEXT, DELETE TEXT IN SQUARE BRACK ETS TO BE 
ADDRESSED IN THE RES OLUTION:   
OR 
[48a) alt. WHO’s involvement in external partnerships is regulated by the policy on WHO’s 
engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements and the current framework, in a 
complementary way. In particular, for the purposes of due diligence, risk assessment and risk 
management of WHO’s involvement in formal partnerships, the cu rrent framework will apply.]  
OFFICIAL RELATIONS  
49. “Official relations” is a privilege that the Executive Board may grant to nongovernmental 
organizations, international business associations and philanthropic foundations that have had and 
continue to hav e a sustained and systematic engagement4 in the interest of the Organization. The aims 
and activities of all these entities shall be in conformity with the spirit, purposes and principles of 
WHO’s Constitution, and they shall contribute significantly to th e advancement of public health. 
Organizations in official relations can attend governing body meetings of WHO but are otherwise 
subject to the same rules as other non -State actors when engaging with WHO.  
                                                      
1 See Basic documents, 47th ed. Gen eva: World Health Organization; 2009, pp 104 –112 ( http://apps.who.int/gb/bd/  
PDF/bd47/EN/basic -documents -47-en.pdf , accessed 1 December 2014).  
2 Basic documents, 47th ed. Genev a: World Health Organization; 2009, pp.113 –120. 
3 Basic documents, 47th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2009, pp.87 –97. 
4 At least two years of systematic engagement as documented in the WHO register of non -State actors, assessed by 
both parties to be mutually beneficial. Participation in each other’s meetings alone is not considered to be a systematic 
engagement.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  19 50. [All entities in official relations shall have a  constitution or similar basic document, an 
established headquarters, a directing or governing body, an administrative structure, and a regularly 
updated entry in the WHO register of non -State actors.]  
OR 
50alt.  [Entities in official relations (INSERT FOOT NOTE) are international in membership and/or 
scope.  All entities in official relations shall have a constitution or similar basic document, an 
established headquarters, a directing or governing body, an administrative structure, and a regularly 
updated en try in the WHO register of non -State actors.]  
[FOOTNOTE: Before working relations are established between WHO and a national NGO, and 
before a programme of collaboration with such an organization is agreed, appropriate measures will be 
taken to consult wit h the government concerned in accordance with article 71 of the WHO 
Constitution).]  
OR 
50alt OLD CHAIRs PROPOSAL Entities in official relations are international in membership and 
[/or] scope. All entities in official relations shall have a constitution or  similar basic document, an 
established headquarters, a [directing] / [steering] or governing body, an administrative structure, and 
a regularly updated entry in the WHO register of non -State actors. (+ DELETION OF PARAGRAPH 
55)  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL NEW : Entit ies in official relations are international in membership and /or 
scope. All entities in official relations shall have a constitution or similar basic document, an 
established headquarters, a governing body, an administrative structure, and a regularly upd ated entry 
in the WHO register of non -State actors. (+ DELETION OF PARAGRAPH 55)   
51. A plan for collaboration [with agreed objectives/results/targets and]  
[based on mutually agreed objectives and] (DELETE)  
outlining activities for the coming three -year period structured in accordance with the General 
Programme of Work and Programme budget shall form the basis of official relations between WHO 
and organizations in official relations. This plan shall also be published in the WHO register of 
non-State actor s. These organizations shall provide annually a short report on the progress made in 
implementing the plan of collaboration and other related activities which will also be published in the 
WHO register.  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL : Art. 51.  Official relations shall be  based on a plan for collaboration 
between WHO and the entity with agreed objectives and outlining activities for the coming three -year 
period structured in accordance with the General Programme of Work and Programme budget This 
plan shall also be publishe d in the WHO register of non -State actors. These organizations shall provide 
annually a short report on the progress made in implementing the plan of collaboration and other 
related activities which will also be published in the WHO register.  
52. The Execu tive Board shall be responsible for deciding on the admission of organizations into 
official relations with WHO and shall review this status every three years. The Director -General may 
propose international nongovernmental organizations, philanthropic foun dations and international WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 business associations for admission. The Director -General can also propose an earlier review based on 
the experience in the collaboration with the organization concerned.  
53. Entities in official relations are invited to participa te in sessions of WHO’s governing bodies. 
This privilege shall include:  
(a) the possibility to appoint a representative to participate, without right of vote, in meetings 
of WHO’s governing bodies or in meetings of the committees and conferences convened u nder 
its authority;  
(b) the possibility to make a statement if the Chairman of the meeting (i) invites them to do 
so or (ii) accedes to their request when an item in which the related entity is particularly 
interested is being discussed;  
(c) the possibili ty to submit the statement referred to in subparagraph (b) above in advance of 
the debate for the Secretariat to post on a dedicated website.  
54. Non-State actors participating in WHO governing bodies’ meetings shall designate a head of 
their delegation an d declare the affiliations of their delegates. This declaration shall include the 
function of each delegate within the non -State actor itself and, where applicable, the function of that 
delegate within any affiliated organization.  
55. [Entities in official  relations are international in membership and/or scope. The organization or 
its affiliates can also attend meetings of the regional committees. Regional committees may decide on 
a procedure granting accreditation to their meetings to other non -State actor s not in official relations as 
long as the procedure is managed in accordance with this framework.] (DISCUSS WITH P51)  
(CHAIR PROPOSAL TO DELETE PARAGRAPH 55 SINCE IT IS MERGED WITH 
PARAGRAPH  50) 
Procedure for admitting and reviewing organizations in offic ial relations  
56. The application for admission into official relations shall be based on the up -to-date entries in 
the WHO register of non -State actors, providing all the necessary information as requested on the 
non-State actor’s nature and activities. T he application shall include a summary of past engagement as 
documented in the register of non -State actors and a three -year plan for collaboration with WHO that 
has been developed and agreed on jointly by the non -State actor and WHO.  
57. A signed letter c ertifying the accuracy of the application for official relations submitted online 
shall reach WHO headquarters no later than the end of the month of July for submission to the 
Executive Board at its session the following January. Applications for official relations shall be 
reviewed to ensure that the established criteria and other requirements are fulfilled as set out in this 
framework. Applications should be transmitted to the Executive Board members by the Secretariat six 
weeks before the opening of the January session of the Executive Board at which they will be 
considered.  
58. The entities in official relations and the Secretariat should name focal points for collaboration 
who are responsible for informing each other and their organizations of any devel opments in the 
implementation of the plan for collaboration and who are the first points of contact for any changes or 
problems.  [MOVE PARA TO AFTER P61]    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  21 59. During the Board’s January session, the Programme, Budget and Administration Committee 
shall consi der applications submitted and shall make recommendations to the Board. A representative 
of an applicant organization may be invited by the Committee to speak before it in connection with 
that organization’s application. Should the applicant organization b e considered not to meet the 
established criteria, and bearing in mind the desirability of ensuring a valuable continuing partnership 
based on defined objectives and evidenced by a record of successful past engagement and a framework 
for future collaborati ve activities, the Committee may recommend postponement of consideration or 
rejection of an application.  
60. The Board, after considering the recommendations of the Committee, shall decide whether an 
organization is to be admitted into official relations w ith WHO. A reapplication from a non -State actor 
shall not normally be considered until two years have elapsed since the Board’s decision on the 
previous application.  
61. The Director -General shall inform each organization of the Board’s decision on its app lication. 
The Director -General shall document decisions taken within the Secretariat and by the Executive 
Board on applications from non -State actors,  reflect this status in the WHO register of non -State 
actors, and maintain a list of the organizations ad mitted into official relations.  
62. The Board, through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee, shall review 
collaboration with each non -State actor in official relations every three years and shall decide on the 
desirability of maintaining offi cial relations or defer the decision on the review to the following year. 
The Board’s review shall be spread over a three -year period, one third of the entities in official 
relations being reviewed each year.  
63. The Director -General can propose earlier r eviews of a non -State actor’s official relations with 
WHO by the Executive Board through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee in case 
of issues such as non -fulfilment of the entity’s part in the plan of collaboration, lack of contact, failure  
by the non -State actor to fulfil its reporting requirements or changes in the nature or activities of the 
organization concerned, the non -State actor ceasing to fulfil the criteria for admission, or any potential 
new risks for the collaboration.  
64. The B oard may discontinue official relations if it considers that such relations are no longer 
appropriate or necessary in the light of changing programmes or other circumstances. Similarly, the 
Board may suspend or discontinue official relations if an organiza tion no longer meets the criteria that 
applied at the time of the establishment of such relations, fails to update its information and report on 
the collaboration in the WHO register on non -State actors or fails to fulfil its part in the agreed 
programme o f collaboration.  
[ACCREDITATION OF NG OS 
64 bis   To be eligible for accreditation to the Health Assembly, Executive Board and committees and 
conferences convened under their authority, a nongovernmental organization shall:  
(a) have aims and purposes consist ent with WHO’s Constitution and in conformity with the 
policies of the Organization as well as resolutions and decisions adopted by the Executive Board 
and the World Health Assembly;  
(b) demonstrate competence in a field of activity related to the work of WHO;  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 (c) have membership and/or activities that are international in scope;  
(d) be non -profit and public interest in nature, and in its activities and advocacy;  
(e) have an established structure, a constitutive act, and accountability mechanisms;  
(f) for a  membership organization, have the authority to speak for its members and have a 
representative structure; The Membership should not contain private sector entities, individuals 
associated with private sector entities or philanthropic foundations and acade mic institutions not 
at arm’s length with private sector;  
(g) have existed formally for at least three years as of date of receipt of the application by 
WHO;  
(h) disclose information on its objectives, structure, membership of executive body, field of 
activities and source of financing, and, where applicable, its status with other entities of the 
United Nations system;  
(i) agree to provide WHO regularly with updated information as well as to inform WHO of 
any changes with respect to its status as « non -gove rnmental organization » as soon such 
changes take place.  
Completed applications should reach WHO headquarters by the beginning of June in order to be 
considered by the Executive Board in January of the following year. Applications should be 
transmitted to Member States by the Secretariat two months in advance of the session at which they 
will be considered. A re -application from a “nongovernmental organization” shall not be considered 
until two years have elapsed since the Board’s decision on the original a pplication. Once a 
nongovernmental organization is accredited, information gathered on its objectives, structure, 
membership of executive body, field of activities and source of funding, including updated 
information, shall be made publicly available. A re port on accredited nongovernmental organizations 
shall be submitted every two years to the Executive Board.]  
(CHAIRS PROPOSAL: DELETE ) 
OVERSIGHT OF ENGAGEM ENT  
65. The Executive Board, through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee, oversees 
the implementation of WHO’s framework of engagement with non -State actors, proposes revisions to 
the framework and can grant the privileges of official relations to international nongovernmental 
organizations, philanthropic foundations and international busin ess associations.  
66. The Programme Budget and Administration Committee shall review, provide guidance and, as 
appropriate, make recommendations to the Executive Board on:  
(a) oversight of WHO’s implementation of the framework for engagement with non -State  
actors including:  
(i) consideration of the annual report on engagement with non -State actors submitted 
by the Director -General which provides a summary of engagements and highlights 
challenges arising from such engagement.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  23 AND  
(i bis) [consideration of th e annual report of the Independent Expert Oversight Advisory 
Committee on WHO’s engagement with non -State actors]  
(ii) any other matter on engagement referred to the Committee by the Board  
(b) entities in official relations with WHO, including:  
(i) proposa ls for admitting non -State actors into official relations  
(ii) review of renewals of entities in official relations  
(c) any proposal, when needed, for revision of the framework of engagement with non -State 
actors.  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL: KEEP TEXT INCLUDING ibis  
NON -COMPLIANCE WITH THIS  FRAMEWORK  
67. Non-compliance can include inter alia  the following: significant delays in the provision of 
information to the WHO register of non -State actors; the provision of wrong information; the use of 
the engagement with WHO f or commercial, promotional, marketing and advertisement  purposes; 
[engagement in [political activities]/[partisan politics];] misuse of WHO’s name and emblem; and 
abuse of the privileges conferred by official relations.  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL 67 alt:   Non-compliance can include inter alia  the following: significant 
delays in the provision of information to the WHO register of non -State actors; the provision of wrong 
information; the use of the engagement with WHO for commercial, promotional, marketing and 
advertisement  purposes; misuse of WHO’s name and emblem; misuse of the fact of engaging with 
WHO for other than public health purposes, and abuse of the privileges conferred by official relations.  
68. Non-compliance by a non -State actor with the provisions of this framework can have 
conseq uences for the entity concerned after due process including a reminder, a warning, a cease -anddesist letter, a rejection of renewal of engagement and termination of engagement. The review of the 
status of official relations by the Executive Board can be a nticipated and non -compliance can be the 
reason for non -renewal of official relations. Except in the case of important and intentional cases of 
non-compliance the non -State actor concerned should not be automatically excluded from other 
engagements with WH O. 
69. Any financial contribution received by WHO that is subsequently discovered to be  
non-compliant with the terms of this framework shall be returned to the contributor.  
MONITORING AND EVALU ATION OF THE FRAMEWO RK 
70. The implementation of the framework will be constantly monitored internally through the 
engagement coordination group and by the Executive Board through its Programme, Budget and 
Administration Committee in the annual report on engagement with non -State actors and the 
assessment of informati on available in the register of non -State actors.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 71. Furthermore, the implementation of the framework should be periodically evaluated. The results 
of such evaluation, together with any proposals for revisions of the framework, shall also be submitted 
to the Executive Board through its Programme, Budget and Administration 
Committee .[PERIODICITY TO BE DECIDED BY THE RESOLUTION]  
[New72. The following steps shall be taken for the effective implementation of the framework:  
(a) Review existing list of non -State actors in official relation and to apply the categorization 
of non -State actors as set out in this framework.  
(b) Review of WHO’s existing external and hosted partnerships, collaborations in the light of 
this framework and to take appropriate measures to  avoid and manage risk. Towards this 
purpose the Secretariat should invite comments from the public.  
(c) Review and amend all the policies listed in Paragraph 48 of EB136/5 to fully align those 
policies with the existing framework. Towards this end, the Se cretariat will hold web 
consultations open for Member States and public to pinpoint the areas of the existing policies 
which need to be reviewed and amended in the light of framework;  
(d) The non -State actors registry shall be made operational within six m onths of the adoption 
of the framework of engagement with non -State actors.] [MAKE REFERENCE TO THE 
RESOLUTION]  
(CHAIRS PROPOSAL : DELETE 72 AS ISSUE S ARE ADDRESSED IN T HE 
RESOLUTION)    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  25 DRAFT WHO POLICY AND  OPERATIONAL PROCEDUR ES ON ENGAGEMENT 
WITH NONGOVERNMENTAL  ORGANIZATIONS  
1. Nongovernmental organizations make important contributions to global health because they 
often have deep roots in local communi ties, have special flexibilities to respond to health needs, 
represent affected populations and other key groups, and promote innovative solutions. Therefore 
WHO engages with this group of key actors in global health in order to leverage their support in t he 
fulfilment of WHO’s mandate.  
(CHAIR’S PROPOSAL  TO KEEP THE PARAGRAPH)  
2. This policy regulates specifically WHO’s engagement with nongovernmental organizations by 
type of interaction.1 The generic provisions of the framework also apply to all engagements with 
nongovernmental organizations.  
PARTICIPATION  
Participation by nongovernmental organizations in WHO meetings2 
3. WHO can invite nongovernmental organizations to participate in consu ltations, hearings or 
other meetings in accordance with paragraph 16 of the overarching framework. Consultations and 
hearings can be electronic or in person.  
4. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the 
nongovernmental organization has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the 
deliberations of the meeting. Such participation is for the exchange of information and views, but 
never for the formulation of advice.  
4bis.  The nature of  participation of nongovernmental organizations depends on the type of meeting 
concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation of nongovernmental organizations in 
consultations, hearings, and other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by th e WHO governing 
bodies or by the Secretariat. Participation and inputs received from nongovernmental organizations 
shall be made publicly available, wherever possible. Nongovernmental organizations do not take part 
in any decision making process of the Org anization.  
Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by nongovernmental organizations  
5. WHO can organize joint meetings, or cosponsor meetings organized by nongovernmental 
organizations, as long as the integrity and independence of the Organiz ation are preserved, and as long 
as this participation furthers WHO’s objectives as expressed in the General Programme of Work. 
WHO staff members may participate in meetings organized by nongovernmental organizations in 
accordance with the internal rules o f the Organization. The nongovernmental organization shall not 
misrepresent WHO’s participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and 
shall agree not to use WHO’s participation for promotional purposes.  
                                                      
1 See paragraphs 15 –21 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction.  
2 Other than sessions of the governing bodies , which are regulated by the policy on management of engagement . WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 Operational procedures  
6. The participation of WHO in meetings organized by nongovernmental organizations as 
co-organizers, cosponsors, panellists or speakers shall be managed according to the provisions of the 
framework for engagement with non -State actors.  
RESOURCES  
7. WHO can ac cept funds, personnel and in -kind contributions from nongovernmental 
organizations as long as such contributions fall within WHO’s General Programme of Work, do not 
create conflicts of interest, are managed in accordance with the framework, and comply with  other 
relevant regulations, rules and policies of WHO.  
KEEP TEXT; ADD FOOTN OTE TO PERSONNEL: Contribution of personnel are only acceptable 
for short term assignments that do not involve  normative work and if potential risks are managed in 
accordance with  this framework.  
8. WHO can provide resources to a nongovernmental organization for implementation of 
particular work in accordance with the Programme budget, the Financial Regulations and Financial 
Rules and other applicable rules and policies. The resour ces concerned can be either for a project of 
the institution which WHO considers merits support and is consistent with WHO’s programme of 
work, or for a project organized or coordinated by WHO. The former constitutes a grant, the latter a 
service.  
Specific  policies and operational procedures  
9. Any acceptance of resources from a nongovernmental organization is handled in accordance 
with the provisions of this framework and relevant other rules such as the Staff Regulations and Staff 
Rules, the Financial Reg ulations and Financial Rules and WHO’s policies governing procurement.  
10. For reasons of transparency, contributions and donations from nongovernmental organizations 
must be publicly acknowledged by WHO in accordance with its  policies and practices.  
11. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: “The World Health 
Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [Nongovernmental organization] 
towards [description of the outcome or activity]”.  
12. Contributions rece ived from nongovernmental organizations are listed in the financial report 
and audited financial statements of WHO as well as the Programme budget web portal and the WHO 
register of non -State actors.  
13. Nongovernmental organizations may not use the fact t hat they have made a contribution in their 
materials used for commercial, promotional, marketing and advertisement purposes. However, they 
may make reference to the contribution in their annual reports or similar documents. In addition, they 
may mention th e contribution on their websites, and in special non -promotional publications, provided 
that the content and context have been agreed with WHO.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  27 EVIDENCE  
14 Nongovernmental organizations may provide their up -to-date information and knowledge on 
technical issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, subject to the provisions of the 
overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applicable 
WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be m ade publicly available, as 
appropriate, wherever possible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available.  
ADVOCACY  
15. WHO collaborates with nongovernmental organizations on advocacy for health and increasing 
awareness of health issues; f or changing behaviours in the interest of public health; and for fostering 
collaboration and greater coherence between non -State actors where joint action is required.  
16. WHO favours independent monitoring functions and therefore engages with nongovernmen tal 
organizations working in this field. Nongovernmental organizations are encouraged to disseminate 
WHO’s policies, guidelines, norms and standards and other tools through their networks so as to 
extend WHO’s own reach.  
TECHNICAL COLLABORAT ION  
17. The Sec retariat is encouraged to undertake technical collaboration with nongovernmental 
organizations, provided that it is in the interests of the Organization and managed in accordance with 
the framework for engagement with non -State actors.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 DRAFT WHO POLICY AND  OPERATIONAL PROCEDUR E ON  
ENGAGEMENT WITH PRIV ATE SECTOR ENTITIES  
1. Private sector entities are key players in global health as providers, both within and beyond the 
health sector, of goods and  services that can have important effects on health. Therefore WHO 
engages with this group of key actors in global health to improve their positive contribution, limit their 
negative effects on health and leverage their support in the fulfilment of WHO’s m andate.  
AND  
[This policy is applicable to private sector firms, international business associations, academic 
institutions and philanthropic foundations not at arm’s length with the private sector and other not -forprofit organizations, which are not quali fied as NGOs under the overarching framework on the 
engagement of non -State actors.]  
CHAIR PROPOSAL : KEEP FIRST VERSION  ALTERNATIVE  
2. This policy regulates specifically WHO’s engagement with private sector entities by type of 
interaction.1 The  general pr ovisions of the framework also apply to all engagements with private 
sector entities.  
CHAIR PROPOSAL : KEEP TEXT  
3. [In engaging with private sector entities, WHO will aim to operate on a competitively neutral 
basis.] OR DELETE  
CHAIR PROPOSAL : KEEP TEXT  
PAR TICIPATION  
Participation by private sector entities in WHO meetings2 
4. WHO can invite private sector entities to participate in consultations, hearings or other meetings 
in accordance with paragraph 16 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings can be 
electronic or in person.  
5. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the private 
sector entity has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the deliberations of the 
meeting. Su ch participation is for the exchange of information and views, but never for the 
formulation of advice.  
5bis The nature of participation of private sector entities depends on the type of meeting concerned. 
The format, modalities, and the participation of p rivate sector entities in consultations, hearings, and 
other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by the WHO governing bodies or by the Secretariat. 
                                                      
1 See paragraphs 15 –21 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction.  
2 Other than sessions  of the governing bodies , which are regulated by the policy on management of engagem ent.   WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  29 Participation and inputs received from private sector entities shall be made publicly available, 
wherever possible. Private sector entities do not take part in any decision making process of the 
Organization.  
Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by private sector entities  
6. WHO staff members may participate in meetings organized by a pri vate sector entity as long as 
the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are preserved and as long as this 
participation furthers WHO’s objectives as expressed in the General Programme of Work. The private 
sector entity shall not misrep resent WHO’s participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement 
of, the meeting, and shall agree not to use WHO’s participation for commercial and/or promotional 
purposes.  
Specific policies and operational procedures  
7. The participation of WHO staf f members in meetings of private sector entities as panellists, 
speakers or in any other capacity shall be managed according to the provisions of the overarching 
framework and this specific policy.  
8. WHO does not cosponsor meetings organized wholly or par tly by private sector entities. It may, 
however, cosponsor a meeting for which the scientific initiators have hired a commercial conference 
organizer to deal with the logistical aspects, provided that the commercial organizer makes no 
contribution to the s cientific content of the meeting.  
9. WHO does not cosponsor meetings organized by other actors where one or more health -related 
private sector entities are also cosponsors. Other instances of cosponsorship of meetings organized by 
other actors where non h ealth -related private sector entities are also cosponsors should be reviewed on 
a case -by-case basis and are subject to the provisions of this framework.  
10. There shall be no commercial exhibitions on WHO premises and at WHO’s meetings.  
11. WHO does not c osponsor commercial exhibitions, whether as part of meetings organized by 
private sector entities or as part of meetings organized by other actors.  
RESOURCES  
12. The level of risk associated with the acceptance of resources from private sector entities 
depends on the field of activity of the private sector entity, the WHO activity for which the resources 
are used and the modalities of the contributions.  
(a) Funds may be accepted from private sector entities whose business is unrelated to that of 
WHO, provid ed they are not engaged in any activity [or affiliated with any entity] that is 
incompatible with WHO’s mandate and work.   
(b) Funds may not be sought or accepted from private sector entities that have, themselves or 
through their affiliated companies, a d irect commercial interest in the outcome of the project 
toward which they would be contributing, unless approved in conformity with the provisions for 
clinical trials or product development (see paragraph 38 below).  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 (c) Caution should be exercised in accep ting financing from private sector entities that have 
even an indirect interest in the outcome of the project (i.e. the activity is related to the entities’ 
field of interest, without there being a conflict as referred to above). In such an event, other 
commercial enterprises having a similar indirect interest should be invited to contribute, and the 
reason clearly described if this does not prove possible. The larger the proportion of the 
contribution from any one source, the greater the care that should b e taken to avoid the 
possibility of a conflict of interest or appearance of an inappropriate association with one 
contributor.   
[(d) WHO shall not receive financial resources from private sector entities as well as non -state 
actors with links to private se ctor entities whose activities [or advocacy] are undermining the 
mandate of WHO as stated in its Constitution]/DISCUSS WITH PARA 44  
[(e) The WHO should establish ceiling in the voluntary contribution from non -state actors. 
Any contribution beyond that amou nt should go to the core voluntary fund which gives enough 
freedom to the Secretariat to allocate resources to underfunded programmes. The Member 
States assessed contributions should be allocated to the programmes that are underfunded under 
voluntary contr ibution]/OR MOVE TO 18ter in the overarching framework/DELETE  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL a)  Funds may be accepted from private sector entities whose business is 
unrelated to that of WHO, provided they are not engaged in any activity or have close ties with 
any entity  that is incompatible with WHO’s mandate and work.   
DELETE d) AND e)  
13. Financial and in -kind contributions from private sector entities to WHO’s programmes are only 
acceptable in the following conditions:  
(a) the contribution is not used for normative work;  
(b) if a contribution is used for activities other than normative work in which the private 
sector entity could have a commercial interest, the public health benefit of the engagement 
needs clearly to outweigh its potential risks;  
(c) the proportion of funding of any activity coming from the private sector cannot be such 
that the programme’s continuation would become dependent on this support;  
(d) the acceptance of the contribution does not constitute an endorsement by WHO of the 
private sector entity , or its activities, products or services;  
(e) the contributor may not use the results of WHO’s work for commercial purposes or use 
the fact of its contribution in its promotional material;  
(f) the acceptance of the contribution does not afford the contributor any privilege or 
advantage;  
(g) the acceptance of the contribution does not offer the contributor any possibility for 
advising, influencing, participating in, or being in command of the management or 
implementation of operational activities;    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  31 (h) WHO keeps its discretionary right to decline a contribution, without any further 
explanation.  
14. [The Director -General can set up mechanisms for pooling contributions from multiple sources, 
if the mechanisms are designed in such a manner as to avoid any  perceived influence from the 
contributors on WHO’s work; if the mechanism is open to all interested contributors; and if the 
mechanism is subject to the conditions in paragraph 12 above and transparency is achieved through 
the WHO register of non -State ac tors and the Programme budget web portal].  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL KEEP TEXT  
Specific policies and operational procedures  
15. Any acceptance of financial, personnel or in -kind contribution from private sector entities shall 
be managed in accordance with this frame work and based on a signed agreement.  
KEEP TEXT; ADD FOOTN OTE TO PERSONNEL: Contribution of personnel are only acceptable 
for short term assignments that do not involve normative work and if potential risks are managed in 
accordance with this framework.  
16 For reasons of transparency, contributions from private sector entities must be publicly 
acknowledged by WHO in accordance with its policies and practices.  
17. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: “The World Health 
Organizat ion gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [Private sector entity] towards 
[description of the outcome or activity]”.  
18. Contributions received from private sector entities, are listed in the financial report and audited 
financial statement s of WHO as well as the Programme budget web portal and the register of 
non-State actors.  
[18bis. Any donation received by WHO which is subsequently discovered to be noncompliant with 
this framework shall be returned to the donor.]  
CHAIR PROPOSAL: DELE TE A S IT IS COVERED BY O VERARCHING FRAMEWORK  
PARAGRAPH 69  
19. Private sector entities may not use [WHO’s logo] / [[such] / [ the] results of WHO’s work for 
commercial purposes] and may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their promotional 
materials. However, they may make reference to their contribution in their corporate annual reports or 
similar documents. In addition they may mention the contribution in a transparency listing on their 
websites, in special non -promotional or product -related corporate responsibility pages on their website 
and in similar publications provided that the content and context have been agreed with WHO . 
CHAIRS PROPOSAL  Art. 19 alt : Private sector entities may not use the results of WHO’s work to 
which they have contributed for commercial purposes and may not use the fact that they have made a 
contribution in their promotional materials. However, they may make reference to their contribution in 
their corporate annual reports or similar documents. In addition they may mention the contribution in a 
transparency listing on their websites, in special non -promotional or product -related corporate WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 responsibility pages on their website and in similar publications provided that the content and context 
have been agreed with WHO.  
(COMMENT: USE OF NAM E AND EMBLEM IS REGU LATED BY REGULATED B Y 
PARAGRAPH 45 OF THE OVERARCHING FRAMEWOR K 
Donations of medicines and other health technologies1 
20. In determining the acceptability of large -scale donations of medicines and other health -related 
products, the following criteria should be met.  
(a) Sound evidence exists of the safety and efficacy of the product in the indication for which 
it is being donated. The product is approved or otherwise authorized by the recipient country for 
use in that indication; it should also preferably appear in the WHO Model List of Essential 
Medicines for that indication.  
(b) Objective and justifiable criteria for the selection of recipient countries, communities or 
patients have been determined. In emergency situations, flexibilities may be required.  
(c) A supply system is in place and consideration is given to means of preventing waste, theft 
and misuse (including leakage back into the market).  
(d) A training and supervision programme is in place for all pers onnel involved in the 
efficient administration of supply, storage and distribution at every point from the donor to the 
end-user.  
(e) A donation of medicines and other health -related products is not of a promotional nature, 
either with regard to the compan y itself or insofar as it creates a demand for the products that is 
not sustainable once the donation has ended.  
(f) WHO does not accept products at the end of their shelf life.  
(g) A phase -out plan for the donation has been agreed upon with recipient countries.  
(h) A system for monitoring adverse reactions to the product has been set up with the 
participation of the donating company.  
21. In consultation with the department responsible for financial matters in WHO, the value of 
donations of medicines an d other health -related products is determined and is formally recorded in the 
audited statements and the WHO register of non -State actors.  
Financial contributions for clinical trials  
22. Except as provided in paragraph 38 below on product development, fina ncial contributions from 
a commercial enterprise for a clinical trial arranged by WHO on that company’s proprietary product 
                                                      
1 Such donations shall be in line with interagency guidelines : World Health Organization, Ecumenical Pharmaceutical 
Network, International Pharmaceutical Federation, International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, 
International Healt h Partners, The Partnership for Quality Medical Donations, et al. Guidelines  for medicine donations – 
revised 2010 . Geneva: World Health Organization; 2011.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  33 are considered on a case -by-case basis and always decided by the Engagement coordination group. In 
this connection, it should be ens ured that:  
(a) the research or development activity is of public health importance;  
(b) the research is conducted at WHO’s request and potential conflicts of interest are 
managed;  
(c) WHO only accepts such financial contributions, if the research would not  take place 
without WHO’s involvement or if WHO’s involvement is necessary in order to ensure that the 
research is undertaken in conformity with internationally accepted technical and ethical 
standards and guidelines.  
23 If the above -mentioned requirements  are met, a financial contribution may be accepted from a 
company having a direct commercial interest in the trial in question, provided that appropriate 
mechanisms are put in place to ensure that WHO controls the conduct and the dissemination of the 
outco mes of the trials, including the content of any resulting publication, and that the trial results are 
free from any inappropriate influence or perceived influence from the company concerned.  
Contributions for WHO meetings  
24. For meetings convened by WHO, a contribution from a private sector entity may not be 
accepted if it is designated to support the participation of specific invitees (including such invitees’ 
travel and accommodation), regardless of whether such contribution would be provided directly to  the 
participants or channelled through WHO.  
25. Contributions may be accepted to support the overall costs of a meeting.  
26. WHO receptions and similar functions shall not be paid for by private sector entities.  
Contributions for WHO staff participating in external meetings  
27. An external meeting is one convened by a party other than WHO. Support from private sector 
entities for travel of WHO staff members to attend external meetings or conferences may fall into two 
categories:  
(a) meetings held by the private sector entity paying for travel: financing for travel may be 
accepted in accordance with WHO’s rules if the private sector entity is also supporting the 
travel and ancillary expenses of other participants in the meeting, and the risk of a conflict of 
interest has been assessed and managed;  
(b) meetings held by a third party (i.e. a party other than the private sector entity proposing to 
pay for the travel): financing for travel may not be accepted from a private sector entity.  
Contributions for publ ications  
28. Funds may be accepted from private sector entities for meeting the printing costs of WHO 
publications, as long as no conflict of interest arises. In no event may commercial advertisements be 
placed in WHO publications.  WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 Contributions for financ ing staff salaries  
29. [Funds designated to support the salary of specific staff members or posts (including short -term 
consultants) may not be accepted from private sector entities]  [STOP HERE]  
[if they could give rise to a real or perceived conflict of i nterest in relation to WHO’s work. ]  
(DELETE)  
OR 
(DELETE PARAGRAPH)  
CHAIR PROPOSAL: DELE TE PARAGRAPH  
Cost recovery  
30. In cases where a WHO evaluation scheme is in place (i.e. to evaluate certain products, processes 
or services against official WHO guidelines), the Organization may charge private sector entities for 
such services on the basis of cost recovery. The purpose of WHO’s evaluation schemes is always to 
provide advice to governments and/or international organizations for procurement. Evaluat ion does 
not constitute endorsement by WHO of the product(s), process or service in question.  
EVIDENCE  
31. Private sector entities may provide their up -to-date information and knowledge on technical 
issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropria te, subject to the provisions of the 
overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applicable 
WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as 
appropriate, wherever possible . Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available.  
[31bis. If information gathering is done in the preparation of the development of norms and standards, 
private sector entities can only be involved in the form of hearings] /(DEL ) 
32. Indiv iduals working for interested private sector entities are excluded from participating in 
expert groups; however, expert groups need to be able, where appropriate, to conduct hearings with 
such individuals in order to access their knowledge.  
CHAIRS PROPOSA L KEEP TEXT  
ADVOCACY  
33. WHO encourages private sector entities to implement and advocate for the implementation of 
WHO’s norms and standards. WHO engages in dialogue with private sector entities in order to 
promote the implementation of WHO’s policies, no rms and standards.  
34. Private sector entities can only collaborate with WHO in advocacy for the implementation of a 
WHO norm or standard if they commit themselves to implement these norms and standards in their   WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  35 entirety. No partial or selective implementa tion is acceptable. [SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON 
SPECIFIC PARAGRAPHS IN THE FOUR SPECIFIC POLICIES]  
CHAIRS PROPOSAL KEEP TEXT IN THIS POLICY ONLY  
35. International business associations are encouraged to work with their members in order to 
improve their public  health impact and the implementation of WHO policies, norms and standards.  
TECHNICAL COLLABORAT ION  
36. Technical collaboration with the private sector is welcomed if potential risks of engagement are 
managed or mitigated and provided that the normative work of WHO is protected from any undue 
influence and there is no interference with WHO’s advisory functio n to Member States.  
OR 
[Technical collaboration with the private sector is welcomed provided that it is in the interests of the 
Organization and managed in accordance with the framework for engagement with non -State actors.] 
[and [in particular] provided that the normative work of WHO is protected from any undue influence 
and there is no interference with WHO’s advisory function to Member States.]  
CHAIR PROPOSAL 36 alt : Technical collaboration with the private sector is welcomed provided 
that it is in the interests of the Organization and managed in accordance with this framework and in 
particular provided that the normative work of WHO is protected from any undue influence and there 
is no interference with WHO’s advisory function to Member States.]  
Specifi c policies and operational procedures  
37. If WHO has drawn up official specifications for a product, it may provide technical advice to 
manufacturers for development of their product in accordance with these specifications, provided that 
all private sector  entities known to have an interest in such a product are given the opportunity to 
collaborate with WHO in the same way.  
Product development  
38. WHO collaborates with private sector entities in the development of health -related technology, 
either by conduc ting research and development on their products and supporting transfers and 
licensing of technology or by licensing its intellectual property to such enterprises. Collaborative 
research and development, technology transfer and licensing should, as a gener al rule, be undertaken 
only if WHO and the entity concerned have concluded an agreement cleared by the Office of the Legal 
Counsel that ensures that the final product will ultimately be made widely available [and] [,] 
accessible, [and affordable,] (DELETE)  including to [ the public sector ] (DELETE) of low - and 
middle -income countries [ at a preferential price ] (DELETE). If such an agreement is concluded, 
financing may be accepted from the private sector entity for a clinical trial arranged by WHO on the 
produ ct in question, as contractual commitments obtained from the entity in the public interest 
outweigh any potential conflict of interest in accepting the financial contribution. These contributions 
should be distinguished from the acceptance of contributions  for a clinical trial arranged by WHO on a 
proprietary product as described in paragraph 23.  
OR WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 [ALTERNATIVE LANGUAGE AT HIGHER LEVEL]  
OR 
[CHAIR’S PROPOSAL]  
38alt.  WHO collaborates with private sector entities in the development of health -related technology, 
either by conducting research and development on their products and supporting transfers and 
licensing of technology or by licensing its intellectual property to such enterprises based on an 
agreement cleared by the Office of the Legal Counsel.  Such collaboration must contribute to 
increasing access to quality, safe, efficacious and affordable medical products. If such an agreement is 
concluded, financing may be accepted from the private sector entity for a clinical trial arranged by 
WHO on the product in question, as contractual commitments obtained from the entity in the public 
interest outweigh any potential conflict of interest in accepting the financial contribution. These 
contributions should be distinguished from the acceptance of contribu tions for a clinical trial arranged 
by WHO on a proprietary product as described in paragraph 23.  
(COMMENT TO CHAIR’S PROPOSAL ON PARAGRAPH: THE TEXT “increasing access to 
quality, safe, efficacious and affordable medical products” COMES FROM THE AGREED 
LEADERSHIP PRIORITIES OF THE 12TH GENERAL PROGRAMME OF WORK)    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 DRAFT WHO POLICY AND  OPERATIONAL PROCEDUR ES ON ENGAGEMENT  
WITH PHILANTHROPIC F OUNDATIONS  
1. Philanthropic foundations are making significant contributio ns to global health in general, and 
to WHO’s work in particular, in many areas ranging from innovation to capacity -building and to 
service delivery. Therefore WHO engages with this group of key actors in global health to leverage 
their support in the fulfi lment of WHO’s mandate.  
(CHAIR’S PROPOSAL  TO KEEP THE PARAGRAPH)  
2. This policy regulates specifically WHO’s engagement with philanthropic foundations by type of 
interaction.1 The generic provisions of the framework also apply to all engagements with philanthropic 
foundations.  
PARTICIPATION  
Participation by philanthropic foundations in WHO meetings2 
3. WHO can invite philanthropic foundations to participate in consultations, he arings or other 
meetings in accordance with paragraph 16 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings 
can be electronic or in person.  
4. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the 
philanthropic founda tion has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the 
deliberations of the meeting. Such participation is for the exchange of information and views, but 
never for the formulation of advice.  
4bis.  The nature of participation of philan thropic foundations depends on the type of meeting 
concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation of philanthropic foundations in consultations, 
hearings, and other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by the WHO governing bodies or by 
the Secretariat. Participation and inputs received from philanthropic foundations shall be made 
publicly available, wherever possible. Philanthropic foundations do not take part in any decision 
making process of the Organization.  
Involvement of the Secretari at in meetings organized by philanthropic foundations  
5. WHO can organize joint meetings, or cosponsor meetings organized by philanthropic 
foundations, as long as the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are preserved, 
and as long as this participation furthers WHO’s objectives as expressed in the General Programme of 
Work. WHO staff members may participate in meetings organized by philanthropic foundations in 
accordance with the Organization’s internal rules. The philanthropic foundat ions shall not 
misrepresent WHO’s participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and 
shall agree not to use WHO’s participation for promotional purposes.  
                                                      
1 See paragraphs 15 –21 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction.  
2 Other than  sessions  of the governing bodies , which are regulated by the policy on management of engagement . WHA68.9    
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 Operational procedures  
6. The participation of WHO in meetings organized b y philanthropic foundations as co -organizers, 
cosponsors, panellists or speakers shall be managed according to the provisions of the framework for 
engagement with non -State actors.  
RESOURCES  
7. WHO can accept funds, personnel and in -kind contributions from  philanthropic foundations as 
long as such contributions fall within WHO’s General Programme of Work, do not create conflicts of 
interest, are managed in accordance with the framework, and comply with other relevant regulations, 
rules and policies of WHO.  
KEEP TEXT; ADD FOOTN OTE TO PERSONNEL: Contribution of personnel are only acceptable 
for short term assignments that do not involve  normative work and if potential risks are managed in 
accordance with this framework.  
8. As for all contributors, philanthrop ic foundations shall align their contributions to the priorities 
set by the Health Assembly in the approved Programme budget.  
9. Philanthropic foundations are invited to participate in the financing dialogue, which is designed 
to improve the alignment, pre dictability, flexibility and transparency of WHO’s funding and to reduce 
budgetary vulnerability.  
10. WHO’s programmes and offices should strive to ensure that they do not depend on one single 
source of funding.  
11. The acceptance of contributions (whethe r in cash or in kind) should be made subject to the 
following conditions:  
(a) the acceptance of a contribution does not constitute an endorsement by WHO of the 
philanthropic foundation;  
(b) the acceptance of a contribution does not confer on the contributo r any privilege or 
advantage;  
(c) the acceptance of a contribution as such does not offer the contributor any possibility for 
advising, influencing, participating in, or being in command of the management or 
implementation of operational activities;  
(d) WHO keeps its discretionary right to decline a contribution, without any further 
explanation.  
Specific policies and operational procedures  
12. Any acceptance of resources from a philanthropic foundation is handled in accordance with the 
provisions of this fr amework and relevant other rules such as the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules, 
the Financial Regulations and Financial Rules and WHO’s policies governing procurement.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  39 13. For reasons of transparency, contributions from philanthropic foundations must be pu blicly 
acknowledged by WHO in accordance with its  policies and practices.  
14. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: “The World Health 
Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [Philanthropic foundation] towards 
[description of the outcome or activity]”.  
15. Contributions received from philanthropic foundations are listed in the financial report and 
audited financial statements of WHO as well as the Programme budget web portal and the WHO 
regis ter of non -State actors.  
16. Philanthropic foundations may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their 
promotional materials. However, they may make reference to the contribution in their annual reports 
or similar documents. In addition, t hey may mention the contribution in a transparency listing on their 
websites, in special non -promotional pages of their website and similar publications, provided that the 
content and context have been agreed with WHO.  
EVIDENCE  
17. Philanthropic foundation s may provide their up -to-date information and knowledge on technical 
issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, subject to the provisions of the 
overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applic able 
WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as 
appropriate, wherever possible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available.  
ADVOCACY  
18. WHO collaborates with philanthropic foundations o n advocacy for health and increasing 
awareness of health issues; for changing behaviours in the interest of public health; and for fostering 
collaboration and greater coherence between non -State actors where joint action is required. 
Philanthropic foundati ons are encouraged to disseminate WHO’s policies, guidelines, norms and 
standards and other tools through their networks so as to extend WHO’s own reach.  
TECHNICAL COLLABORAT ION  
19. The Secretariat is encouraged to undertake technical collaboration with ph ilanthropic 
foundations provided that it is in the interests of the Organization and managed in accordance with the 
framework for engagement with non -State actors.    WHA68.9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 DRAFT WHO POLICY AND  OPERATIONAL PROCEDUR ES ON ENGAGEMENT  
WITH ACADEMIC INSTIT UTIONS  
1. Academic institutions contribute to global health through education, research, clinical care and 
the generation, synthesis and analysis of evidence. Therefore, WHO engages with this group of key 
actors in global hea lth to leverage their support in the fulfilment of WHO’s mandate.  
(CHAIR’S PROPOSAL  TO KEEP THE PARAGRAPH)  
2. This policy regulates specifically WHO’s engagement with academic institutions by type of 
interaction.1 The generic provisions of the framework al so apply to all engagements with academic 
institutions.  
3. The engagement with academic institutions at the institutional level has to be distinguished from 
the collaboration with individual experts working for academic institutions.  
PARTICIPATION  
Particip ation by academic institutions in WHO meetings  
4. WHO can invite academic institutions to participate in consultations, hearings or other meetings 
in accordance with paragraph 16 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings can be 
electronic or  in person.  
5. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the academic 
institution has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the deliberations of the 
meeting. Such participation is for the ex change of information and views, but never for the 
formulation of advice.  
5bis.  The nature of participation of academic institution depends on the type of meeting concerned. 
The format, modalities, and the participation of academic institution in consultations, hearings, and 
other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by the WHO governing bodies or by the Secretariat. 
Participation and inputs received from academic institutions shall be made publicly available, 
wherever possible. Academic ins titutions do not take part in any decision making process of the 
Organization.  
Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by academic institutions  
6. WHO can organize joint meetings, or cosponsor meetings organized by academic institutions, as 
long as the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are preserved, and as long as 
this participation furthers WHO’s objectives as expressed in the General Programme of Work. WHO 
staff members may participate in meetings organized by academ ic institutions in accordance with the 
Organization’s internal rules. The academic institution shall not misrepresent WHO’s participation as 
official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and shall agree not to use WHO’s 
participation for promot ional purposes.  
                                                      
1 See paragraphs 15 –21 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction.    WHA68. 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  41 Operational procedures  
7. The participation of WHO in meetings organized by academic institutions as co -organizers, 
cosponsors, panellists or speakers shall be managed according to the provisions of the framework for 
engagement with non -State actors.  
RESOURCES  
8. WHO can accept funds, personnel and in -kind contributions from academic institutions as long 
as such contributions fall within WHO’s General Programme of Work, do not create conflicts of 
interest, are managed in accordance with the framework, and comply with other relevant regulations, 
rules and policies of WHO.  
KEEP TEXT; ADD FOOTN OTE TO PERSONNEL: Contribution of personnel are only acceptable 
for short term assignments that do not involve  normative work and if potential risks are managed in 
accordance with this framework.  
9. WHO can provide resources to an academic institution for implementation of particular work 
(such as research, a clinical trial, laboratory work and preparation of a document). This can be either 
for a project o f the institution which WHO considers merits support and is consistent with WHO’s 
programme of work, or for a project organized or coordinated by WHO. The former constitutes a 
grant, the latter a service.   
Specific policies and operational procedures  
10. Any acceptance of resources from an academic institution is handled in accordance with this 
framework and relevant other rules such as the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules, the Financial 
Regulations and Financial Rules and WHO’s policies governing procurem ent. 
11. For reasons of transparency, contributions from academic institutions must be publicly 
acknowledged by WHO in accordance with its  policies and practices.  
12. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: “The World Health 
Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [academic institution] towards 
[description of the outcome or activity]”.  
13. Contributions received from academic institutions are listed in the financial report and audited 
financial stat ements of WHO as well as the Programme budget web portal and the WHO register of 
non-State actors.  
14. Academic institutions may not use the results of WHO’s work for commercial purposes and 
may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their promotional materials. However, they 
may make reference to the contribution in their annual reports or similar documents. In addition they 
may mention the contribution in a transparency listing on their websites, in special non -promotional 
pages of their w ebsite and similar publications, provided that the content and context have been agreed 
with WHO.  WHA68. 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42 EVIDENCE  
15. Academic institutions may provide their up -to-date information and knowledge on technical 
issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropr iate, subject to the provisions of the 
overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applicable 
WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as 
appropriate, wherever possib le. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available.  
16. Intellectual property arising from collaborations with academic institutions is regulated by the 
agreement with the academic institution. This should be addressed in consultation with  the Office of 
the Legal Counsel.  
ADVOCACY  
17. WHO collaborates with academic institutions on advocacy for health and increasing awareness 
of health issues; for changing behaviours in the interest of public health; and for fostering 
collaboration and greater coherence between non -State actors where joint action is required. WHO 
favours independent monitoring functions and therefore engages with academic institutions working in 
this field. Academic institutions are encouraged to disseminate WHO’s polici es, guidelines, norms and 
standards and other tools through their networks so as to extend WHO’s own reach.  
TECHNICAL COLLABORAT ION  
18. The Secretariat is encouraged to undertake technical collaboration with academic institutions, 
provided that it is in th e interests of the Organization and managed in accordance with the framework 
for engagement with non -State actors.  
19. Scientific collaborations are regulated by the Regulations for Study and Scientific Groups, 
Collaborating Institutions and other Mechanis ms of Collaboration.1 
20. Academic institutions or parts thereof can be designated as WHO collaborating centres in 
accordance with the Regulations mentioned above. In this context, before granting the status of WHO 
collaborating centre a due diligence and risk assessment in accordance with this framework is 
conducted. The collaboration with these collaborating centres is regulated by the aforementioned 
regulations and reflected in the register of non -State actors.  
Ninth plenary meeting, 26 May 2015  
A68/VR/9  
=     =     =  
                                                      
1 Basic documents , 47th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2009, pp  113–120. 