 
 
 
SIXTY-EIGHTH  WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY  WHA 68.1 
Agenda item 12.2 22 May 20 15 
Programme budget 2016 –2017  
 
The Sixty-eighth  World Health Assembly,  
Having considered the Proposed programme budget 2016 –2017;1 
Recognizing the exceptional circumstances relating to the Ebola crisis, the additional work that 
will be required to ensure that WHO is ready to respond effectively to health emergencies, and to 
deliver reforms to enhance WHO’s accountab ility, transparency, financial management, efficiency and 
results reporting,  
1. APPROVES  the programme of work, as outlined in the Proposed programme budget  
2016 –2017;  
2. APPROVES  the budget for the financial period 2016 –2017, under all sources of funds, n amely, 
assessed and voluntary contributions of US$ 4385 million;  
3. ALLOCATES  the budget for the financial period 2016 –2017 to the following categories and 
other areas:  
(1) Communicable diseases US$ 765 million;  
(2) Noncommunicable diseases US$ 340 million ; 
(3) Promoting health through the life course US$ 382 million;  
(4) Health systems US$ 594 million;  
(5) Preparedness, surveillance and response US$ 380 million;  
(6) Enabling functions/corporate services US$ 734 million;  
 Other areas:  
 Polio, Tropical disease research, and Research in human reproduction US$  986 million;  
 Outbreak and crisis response US$  204 million;  
                                                      
1 Document A68/7.  WHA6 8.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 4. RESOLVES  that the budget will be financed as follows:  
(1) by net assessments on Member States adjusted for estimated Member State non -assessed 
income for a total of US$ 929 million;  
(2) from voluntary contributions for a total of US$ 3456 million;  
5. FURTHER RESOLVES  that the gross amount of the assessed contribution for each Member 
State shall be reduced by the sum standing to their credi t in the Tax Equalization Fund; that the 
reduction shall be adjusted in the case of those Members that require staff members to pay income 
taxes on their WHO emoluments, taxes which the Organization reimburses to said staff members; the 
amount of such tax reimbursements is estimated at US$ 27 million, resulting in a total assessment on 
Members of US$ 956 million;  
6. DECIDES  that the Working Capital Fund shall be maintained at its existing level of 
US$ 31 million;  
7. AUTHORIZES  the Director -General to use th e assessed contributions together with the 
voluntary contributions, subject to the availability of resources, to finance the budget as allocated in 
paragraph 3, up to the amounts approved;  
8. FURTHER AUTHORIZES  the Director -General, where necessary, to mak e budget transfers 
among the six categories, up to an amount not exceeding 5% of the amount allocated to the category 
from which the transfer is made. Any such transfers will be reported in the statutory reports to the 
respective governing bodies;  
9. FURTH ER AUTHORIZES  the Director -General, where necessary, to incur expenditures in the 
outbreak and crisis response component of the budget beyond the amount allocated for this 
component, subject to availability of resources, and requests the Director -General t o report to the 
governing bodies on availability of resources and expenditures in this component;  
10. FURTHER AUTHORIZES  the Director -General, where necessary, to incur expenditures in the 
polio, Tropical disease research, and Research in human reproductio n components of the budget 
beyond the amount allocated for those components, as a result of additional governance and resource 
mobilization mechanisms, as well as their budget cycle, which inform the annual/biennial budgets for 
these special programmes, su bject to availability of resources, and requests the Director -General to 
report to the governing bodies on availability of resources and expenditures in these components;  
11. REQUESTS  the Director -General to submit regular reports on the financing and 
implementation of the budget as presented in document A68/7 and on the outcome of the financing 
dialogue, the strategic allocation of flexible resources and the results of the coordinated resource 
mobilization strategy, through the Executive Board and its Prog ramme, Budget and Administration 
Committee, to the World Health Assembly.  
Eighth  plenary meeting, 22 May 201 5 
A68/VR/ 8 
=     =     =  