WHA9.49  Additional  Regulations  of 23 May  1956  amending  the  International  Sanitary  Regulations  with 
respect  to the  Form  of the  International  Certificate  of Vaccination  or Revaccination  against 
Smallpox 
The Ninth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Considering  the need  for the amendment  of certain  of the  provisions  of the  International  Sanitary 
Regulations  (World  Health  Organization  Regulations  No.  2) as adopted  by the  Fourth  World  Health 
Assembly  on 25 May  1951,  with  respect  to the  form  of the International  Certificate  of Vaccination  or 
Revaccination  against  Smallpox  ; 
Having  regard  to Articles  2 (k), 21 (a) and  22 of the Constitution  of the World  Health  Organization, 
ADOPTS,  this  23rd  day  of May  1956,  the  following  Additional  Regulations  : 
ARTICLE  I 
In Appendix  4 of the  International  Sanitary  Regulations  (International  Certificate  of Vaccination 
or Revaccination  against  Smallpox),  there  shall  be made  the following  amendments  : 
Appendix  4 — International  Certificate  of Vaccination  or Revaccination  against  Smallpox 
Delete  the  " box  " in this  appendix  and  replace  by : 
Date Show  by "x"  whether: 
Indiquer  par  «X» 
s'il s'agit  de : Signature  and 
professional  status 
of vaccinator 
Signature  et qualité 
professionnelle  du 
vaccinateur Approved  stamp 
Cachet  d'authentiñcation 
la Primary  vaccination  \ 
performed  f 
Primovaccination  j 
effectuée  / la lb 
lb Read  as successful  \ 
Prise  / 
Unsuccessful  \ 
Pas de prise  / la lb 
2 
Revaccination 2 3 
3 
Revaccination 2 3 
4 
Revaccination 4 5 
5 
Revaccination 4 5 
6 
Revaccination 6 7 
7 
Revaccination 6 7 
ARTICLE  II 
Upon  the  entry-into-force  of these  Additional  Regulations,  the  form  of Certificate  of Vaccination 
or Revaccination  against  Smallpox  set forth  in Appendix  4 of the International  Sanitary  Regulations  may 
continue  to be issued  until  the first  day  of October  1957.  A certificate  of vaccination  so issued  shall  thereafter  continue  to be valid  for  the period  for  which  it was  previously  valid. 
ARTICLE  III 
The period  provided  in execution  of Article  22 of the Constitution  of the Organization  for rejection 
or reservation  shall  be three  months  from  the date  of the  notification  by the  Director-General  of the 
adoption  of these  Additional  Regulations  by the World  Health  Assembly. 
ARTICLE  IV 
These  Additional  Regulations  shall  come  into  force  on the  first  day  of October  1956. 
ARTICLE  V 
The following  final  provisions  of the International  Sanitary  Regulations  shall  apply  to these  Additional 
Regulations  : paragraph  3 of Article  106,  paragraphs  1 and 2 and  the first  sentence  of paragraph  5 of 107, 
108 and  paragraph  2 of 109,  substituting  the date  mentioned  in Article  IV of these  Additional  Regulations 
for that  mentioned  therein,  110  to 113  inclusive. 
IN FAITH  WHEREOF  we have  set our  hands  at Geneva  this  23rd  day  of May  1956. 
J. PARISOT 
President  of the World  Health  Assembly 
M. G.  CANDAU 
Director-General  of the World  Health  Organization 
Handb.  Res.,  3rd  éd.,  1.3.1 Twelfth  plenary  meeting,  23 May  1956  (section  5 of 
the fourth  report  of the Committee  on Programme  and 
Budget) 
