WHA20.1  Amendments  to the Rules  of Procedure  of the World  Health  Assembly 
The Twentieth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the  amendments  to the Rules  of Procedure  of the World  Health  Assembly  as proposed 
by the  Executive  Board  at its thirty-ninth  session, 
ADOPTS  the amendments  to the  Rules  of Procedure  set forth  below:  1 
Rule 25 
The Committee  on  Nominations,  having  regard  to an  equitable  geographic  distribution  and  to 
experience  and  personal  competence,  shall  propose  (a) to the  Health  Assembly  from  among  the  delegates 
nominations  for  the  offices  of the  President  and  five  vice-presidents  of the  Health  Assembly,  for  the  offices 
of chairman  of each  of the main  committees,  and  for  the members  of the  General  Committee  to be elected 
under  Rule  31,  and  (b) to each  of the  main  committees,  set up under  Rule  34,  nominations  from  among 
the delegates  for the offices  of vice-chairman  and  rapporteur.  The  proposals  of the Committee  on Nominations  shall  be forthwith  communicated  to the  Health  Assembly  or to the  main  committees  respectively. 
Rule 26 
At each  regular  session,  the  Health  Assembly,  after  consideration  of the  report  of the  Committee  on 
Nominations,  shall  elect  a President  and  five  vice-presidents,  who  shall  hold  office  until  their  successors  are 
elected. 
Rule 28 
The President  may  appoint  one  of the  vice-presidents  to take  his  place  during  a meeting  or any  part 
thereof.  A vice-president  acting  as president  shall  have  the  same  powers  and  duties  as the President. 
If the  President  is unable  to perform  his functions  during  the  remainder  of the  term  for  which  he was 
elected,  a new  President  shall  be elected  from  among  the  five  vice-presidents  by the Health  Assembly  for  the 
unexpired  term. 
Rule 31 
The General  Committee  of the Health  Assembly  shall  consist  of the President  and  vice-presidents  of the 
Health  Assembly,  the  chairmen  of the  main  committees  of the  Health  Assembly  established  under  Rule  34 
and that  number  of delegates  to be elected  by the  Health  Assembly  after  consideration  of the report  of the 
Committee  on Nominations  as shall  provide  a total  of twenty-two  members  of the  General  Committee, 
provided  that  no delegation  may  have  more  than  one  representative  on the Committee.  The  President  of the 
Health  Assembly  shall  convene,  and  preside  over,  meetings  of the General  Committee. 
Each  member  of the  General  Committee  may  be accompanied  by not  more  than  one  other  member  of 
his delegation. 
The President  or a vice-president  may  designate  a member  of his  delegation  as his  substitute  in his 
capacity  as member  during  a meeting  or any  part  thereof.  The  chairman  of a main  committee  shall,  in the 
case  of absence,  designate  the vice-chairman  of the committee  as his substitute,  provided  that  the vice-chairman 
shall  not  have  the right  to vote  if he is of the same  delegation  as another  member  of the General  Committee. 
Each  of the  elected  delegates  shall  be entitled  to designate  another  member  of his delegation  to act as his 
substitute  in the event  of his absence  from  any  meeting  of the General  Committee. 
Meetings  of the  General  Committee  shall  be held  in private  unless  it decides  otherwise. 
Handb.  Res.,  8th ed., 4.1.4 First  plenary  meeting,  8 May  1967 
