The Thirty-first World Health Assembly, Having considered the report of the Director-General on coordination within the United Nations system on activities financed from extrabudgetary sources within that system Recalling the terms of resolution WHA30.34; 1. NOTES the report and the steps taken to enhance cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control, the United Nations Environment Programme, the World Bank and other organizations; 2. NOTES with satisfaction the co-sponsorship by the United Nations Development Programme and the World Bank of the WHO Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases; 3. EXPRESSES appreciation of the continued financial contribution from the United Nations Development Programme toother special programmes being developed through WHO, including the onchocerciasis control programme, the Expanded Programme on Immunization, and the drinking-water supply programme 4. EXPRESSES the hope that additional support will be forthcoming for these programmes and for other priority areas of WHO's technical cooperation activities with developing countries, in particular with reference to primary health care, essential drugs, communicable disease prevention and control, and activities with intersectoral implications; 5. REQUESTS the Director-General to continue his efforts towards improving coordination between WHO, the United Nations Development Programme and other organizations and bodies engaged in technical cooperation, particularly at country and regional levels; 6. EXPRESSES appreciation of the continued collaboration provided by the United Nations Children's Fund in the priority health sectors 7. URGES Member States to continue their individual and combined efforts to translate the concepts of technical cooperation among developing countries into practical measures in the health field, with a view to enhancing national and collective self-reliance; 8. REQUESTS the Director-General to review the decisions tobe taken at the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries and to bring them to the attention of Member States at the Technical Discussions on Technical cooperation in the field of health among developing countries" beheld at the Thirty-second World Health Assembly. Hbk Res., Vol. II (2nd ed.)8.1.1; 1.4. Thirteenth plenary meeting, 24 May 1978 (Committee B, fifth report)