The Twenty-eighth World Health Assembly, Having considered the report of the Director-General on coordination within the United Nations system on general matters, and resolution EB55.R59, 1. NOTES the report; 2. APPROVES the continued collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme and other organizations and funds providing extrabudgetary resources for health activities and particularly UNFPA, UNEP and UNFDAC; 3. NOTES with satisfaction the cooperation with UNICEF and the memorandum of understanding designed to govern the future collaboration between UNICEF and the Organization 4. WELCOMES the steps taken to consolidate understanding with the World Bank and to develop joint projects with the Regional Banks and especially with the African Development Bank and the African Development Fund; 5. NOTES with satisfaction the continued positive collaboration with the World Food Programme in making food resources available for development programmes and reminds governments of the use of such resources in furthering large-scale health-related projects; 6. NOTES with appreciation the support given by governments and other donors to the Voluntary Fund for Health Promotion and hopes this trend will increase 7. NOTES that the Executive Board in its organizational study on the planning for and impact of extrabudgetary resources on WHO's programmes and policy will make firm recommendations regarding the mechanisms needed both within the Organization and with national administrations to achieve effective planning and coordination of extrabudgetary resources for health and to ensure that support for health is recognized as an essential requirement for development; 8. WELCOMES the current trend in UNDP, UNFPA and other bodies towards further decentralization of their operations to the country level 9. SUPPORTS the action taken by the Director-General to strengthen collaboration at country level in the planning and execution of UNDP-assisted projects with the full participation of the national authorities concerned and 10. REQUESTS the Director-General : (1) to continue his efforts to enhance the role of the Organization as an effective instrument for the coordination of extrabudgetary resources for health work for the benefit of the developing countries; (2) to emphasize the importance of health as an essential component in the development process, particularly within the context of country and intercountry programmes; and (3) to continue his cooperation with extrabudgetary sources of funds including the World Bank and the Regional Banks and bilateral donors. Handb. Res., Vol. II8.1.1 Twelfth plenary meeting, 28 May 1975 (Committee B, fourth report)