WHA5.52 Renewal  of the Contract  of the Director-General 
Whereas  the First  World  Health  Assembly  elected  and  appointed  Dr.  Brock  Chisholm  as DirectorGeneral  of the  World  Health  Organization  ;38 
Whereas,  in the  Agreement  on the  terms  of employment  of the Director-General,  the  First  World Health  Assembly  provided  for his appointment  to be for a five-year  period  as from  21 July  1948  ;39 
Whereas  paragraph  (1) of Article  I of the Agreement  between  the World  Health  Organization  and Dr. Brock  Chisholm  provides  that  the Agreement  may  be renewed  by decision  of the Health  Assembly on such  terms  as the Health  Assembly  may  decide  ; and 
Whereas,  under  Article  31 of the Constitution  of the World  Health  Organization,  " the DirectorGeneral  shall  be appointed  by the Health  Assembly  on the nomination  of the [Executive]  Board  on such terms  as the Health  Assembly  may  determine  ", 
The Fifth  World  Health  Assembly 
1. RECOGNIZES  that  the services  performed  by Dr. Brock  Chisholm  have  contributed  immeasurably  to the successful  operation  of the World  Health  Organization  ; 
2. BELIEVES  it desirable  that  Dr.  Brock  Chisholm  continue  as Director-General  for  a period  beyond 
the expiration  date  of the  present  five-year  period  ; 
3. DECIDES  that  the  Agreement  on the terms  of employment  of Dr.  Brock  Chisholm  shall  be renewed for a period  not  to exceed  three  years  from  21 July  1953  ; 
4. RECOGNIZES  that  Dr.  Brock  Chisholm  will  wish  to give  consideration  to this  decision  to renew  his contract  before  deciding  Whether  he is willing  to accept  it ; and  therefore 
5. REQUESTS  Dr. Brock  Chisholm  to communicate  his decision  to the President  of the Fifth  World  Health Assembly  on or before  31 December  1952,  indicating  whether  he will  accept  the renewal  of his contract, and, if so, the length  of the period  which  he is willing  to accept  to a maximum  of three  years  ; 
6. AUTHORIZES  the President  of the Fifth  World  Health  Assembly  to sign  the renewal  of the Agreement 
on the terms  of employment  of the Director-General  on behalf  of the Organization  ; and 
7. REQUESTS  the President  of the Fifth  World  Health  Assembly  to communicate  the decision  of Dr. Brock Chisholm  to the Executive  Board  at its eleventh  session  so that  the Board  will  know  whether  it will  be 
necessary  to consider  at that  session,  in accordance  with  Article  31 of the Constitution,  a new  nomination for submission  to the Sixth  World  Health  Assembly. 
Handb.  Res.,  1st ed.,  7.3.2 (Fifth  report  of the  Committee  on  Administration, Finance  and  Legal  Matters,  adopted  at the  tenth 
plenary  meeting,  21 May  1952) 
