RESOLUTIONS AND DECISIONS 25 
WHA5.26 Vital and Health Statistics 
The Fifth World Health Assembly, 
Having noted the third report of the Expert Committee on Health Statistics, 23 
1. CALLS the attention of Member governments to the recommendations in this report pertinent to 
national committees on vital and health statistics, or equivalent bodies ; and 
2. CALLS upon Member governments actively to encourage the medical profession, in particular through 
university teaching, to collaborate fully in the proper reporting of morbidity and causes of death, employing 
methods which scrupulously safeguard medical secrecy. 
See also Handb. Res., 1st ed., 1.9, K, p. 72 
WHA5.27 Fellowships: Under-Developed Countries 
The Fifth World Health Assembly (Second report of the Committee on Programme 
and Budget, adopted at the eighth plenary meeting, 
15 May 1952) 
REQUESTS the Director-General, when awarding fellowships for individual studies, either within or 
outside a region, to give priority, for the next three years at least, to the under-developed countries. 
Handb. Res., 1st ed., 1.6.2 
WHA5.28 Leprosy 
The Fifth World Health Assembly, (Third report of the Committee on Programme and 
Budget, adopted at the eighth plenary meeting, 
15 May 1952) 
Noting the recent developments in research and in the treatment and control of leprosy reported by 
some countries ; 
Noting with satisfaction that an expert committee on leprosy is to meet in 1952, 
RESOLVES that the World Health Organization, in active collaboration with countries which are 
working on leprosy, should encourage further active programmes so as to promote progress in this field. 
Handb. Res., 1st ed., 1.3.10 (Third report of the Committee on Programme and 
Budget, adopted at the eighth plenary meeting 
15 May 1952) 
WHA5.29 Supply and Requirements of Insecticides: World Position 
The Fifth World Health Assembly 
1. EXPRESSES its appreciation of the action taken by the Economic and Social Council 24 at its thirteenth 
session to establish a working party to examine the world position regarding the supply and requirements 
of DDT and BHC ; 
2. NOTES with interest the findings and recommendations of the working party and, in particular, the 
value placed on the statistics relating to public-health requirements collected by the World Health Orga­
nization and the suggestion of the possibility of convening at a later date a second meeting of the working 
with wider terms of reference · 3. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to continue  to follow  the general  situation  with  regard  to insecticides for public-health  purposes,  and,  if necessary,  to report  further  on the matter  to the Sixth  World  Health Assembly. 
Handb.  Res.,  1st éd.,  1.13.4.III (Third  report  of the Committee  on Programme  and Budget,  adopted  at the  eighth  plenary  meeting, 15 May  1952) 
