WHA15.47  Malaria  Eradication  Postage  Stamps 
The Fifteenth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the Director-General's  report  on malaria  eradication  postage  stamps; 
Noting  with  satisfaction  that  the issue  of malaria  eradication  postage  stamps  is appreciably  contributing 
to increased  publicity,  in this  way  creating  a better  knowledge  and  consciousness  in the public  in relation 
to the malaria  eradication  programme,  and  will  also  provide  some  financial  assistance  for the malaria  eradication  programme—for  the  Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account  as well  as for  certain  national  programmes  ; 
Considering  the  desirability  that  malaria  eradication  postage  stamps  and  related  philatelic  items  be 
issued  in sufficient  quantities  to ensure  the wide  distribution  which  is essential  for the publicity  aspects 
of this  project, 
1. NOTES  with  satisfaction  the  progress  and  the  arrangements  which  have  been  made; 
2. EXPRESSES  its appreciation  to the  large  number  of governments  which  are  participating; 
3. THANKS  those  governments  which  have  made  donations  of stamps  and  other  philatelic  material; 
4. URGES  the governments  which  have  not  yet done  so to issue  postage  stamps  devoted  to the malaria 
eradication  programme  as a further  demonstration  of their  interest  in the  world-wide  campaign  against 
malaria  and  of their  support  of the efforts  to participate  in " The  World  United  against  Malaria  " campaign; 
5. APPEALS  to the  governments  concerned  to take  the  necessary  measures  to publish  and  distribute  all 
antimalaria  postage  stamps  and  related  philatelic  items  in ample  quantities,  in the interest  of the international 
character  of this  philatelic  project; 
6. EXPRESSES  the hope  that  governments  will  find  it possible  to donate  adequate  quantities  of antimalaria 
postage  stamps  and  all related  philatelic  items  to the Organization  for philatelic  sale,  thus  also  helping  to 
increase  the  confidence  of philatelists  in the  possibility  of acquiring  antimalaria  stamps; 
7. REAFFIRMS  the  arrangements  announced  that  any  postage  stamps  related  to malaria  issued  after  31 
December  1962  are not  a part  of the Organization's  malaria  eradication  postage  stamp  plan; 
8. CONGRATULATES  the  Director-General  for  his continued  and  successful  efforts  to carry  out  the  antimalaria  postage  stamp  plan  in compliance  with  the ethical  standards  of such  plans. 
Handb.  Res.,  6th ed.,  7.1.8 Twelfth  plenary  meeting,  24 May  1962  (section  3 of 
the seventh  report  of the Committee  on Administration, 
Finance  and  Legal  Matters) 
