ns The Sixteenth World Health Assembly, Considering the need for the amendment of certain of the provisions of the International Sanitary Regulations, as adopted by the Fourth World Health Assembly on 25 May 1951, in particular with respect to notifications ; Having regard to Articles 2 ( / c), 21 (a) and 22 of the Constitution of the World Health Organization, ADOPTS, this 23rd day of May 1963, the following Additional Regulations : ARTICLE I In Articles 1, 3, 36 and 97 of the International Sanitary Regulations, there shall be made the following amendments : Article 1 Imported case. Delete this definition and replace by : " ' imported case ' means an infected person arriving on an international voyage : ". Infected local area. Delete paragraph (a) and replace by : " (a) a local area where there is a case of plague, cholera, yellow fever, or smallpox that is neither an imported case nor a transferred case; or". Transferred case. Add the following definition : " ' transferred case ' means an infected person whose infection originated in another local area under the jurisdiction of the same health administration; ". Article 3 Insert as paragraph 2 : " 2. In addition each health administration shall notify the Organization by telegram within twentyfour hours of its being informed : (a) that one or more cases of a quarantinable disease have been imported or transferred into a non-infected local areathe notification to include information on the origin of infection ; (b) that a ship or aircraft has arrived with one or more cases of a quarantinable disease on board the notification to include the name of the ship or the flight number of the aircraft, its previous and subsequent ports-of-call, and whether the ship or aircraft has been dealt with." Re-number paragraph 2 as paragraph 3. Article 36 Insert as paragraph 3 : " 3. Where a health administration has special problems constituting a grave danger to public health a person on an international voyage may, on arrival, be required to give a destination address in writing." Article 97 In paragraph 1, after the words " Appendix 6 ", insert the words : " except when a health administration does not require it ". ARTICLE II The period provided inexecution of Article 22 of the Constitution of the Organization for rejection or reservation shall be three months from the date of the notification by the Director-General of the adoption of these Additional Regulations by the World Health Assembly. ARTICLE III These Additional Regulations shall come into force on the first day of October 1963. ARTICLE IV The following final provisions of the International Sanitary Regulations shall apply to these Additional Regulations : paragraph 3 of Article 106, paragraphs 1 and 2 and the first sentence of paragraph 5 of 107, 108 and paragraph 2 of 109, substituting the date mentioned in Article III of these Additional Regulations for that mentioned therein, 110 to 113 inclusive. IN FAITH WHEREOF we have set our hands at Geneva this 23rd day of May 1963. M. A. MAJEKODUNMI President of the Sixteenth World Health Assembly M. G. CANDAU Director-General of the World Health Organization Handb. Res., 6th ed., 1.5.7.5 Thirteenth plenary meeting, 23 May 1963 (Committee on Programme and Budget, fifth report)