WHA16.22  Headquarters  Accommodation  : Progress  Report 
The Sixteenth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Noting  the reports  and  recommendations  of the Executive  Board,1  its Standing  Committee  on Headquarters  Accommodation,2  and  its Ad Hoc  Committee,3  as well  as the report  of the Director-General  on 
headquarters  accommodation;3 
Noting  the  substantial  increase  in construction  costs  since  the  Thirteenth  World  Health  Assembly 
authorized  the  construction  of a headquarters  building; 
Recognizing  the importance  of adhering  to good  quality  standards  of construction  in the interest  of staff 
efficiency  and  of long-term  economy  in maintenance; 
Taking  into  account  that  making  a reasonable  provision  for underground  parking  at this  stage  in the 
construction  programme  will  result  in an economy  for the Organization  over  a period  of years;  and 
Considering  therefore  that  it is necessary  to re-establish  such  provision  as was  included  in the original 
arrangement  for  the  building, 
1. EXPRESSES  its appreciation  to the  Executive  Board,  and  to its Standing  Committee  on Headquarters 
Accommodation,  for the continuing  surveillance  of this  undertaking; 
2. ACKNOWLEDGES  with  appreciation  the  action  of those  Member  governments  which  have  contributed 
to the building  project  and  invites  other  Member  governments  to do likewise; 
3. DECIDES  to revise  operative  paragraph  1 of resolution  WHA13.46  by authorizing  the construction  of the 
building  at a cost  not  exceeding  Sw.  fr. 60 000 000  ; 
4. DECIDES  furthermore  that,  subject  to the total  authorization  of funds  for the building  project,  provision 
for underground  parking  for about  300  vehicles  should  be made; 
5. REAFFIRMS  its expressions  of appreciation  to the  Government  of the Swiss  Confederation  and  of the 
Republic  and  Canton  of Geneva  for the generous  assistance  already  provided  toward  the realization  of the 
headquarters  building; 
6. EXPRESSES  its hope  that  the host  government  will  find  it possible  to provide  on an interest-free  basis  the 
remaining  credits  required;  and 
7. REQUESTS  the Executive  Board  and  the  Director-General  to report  further  to the  Seventeenth  World 
Health  Assembly,  including  a report  on the definitive  arrangements  for the financing  of the additional  costs. 
Handb.  Res.,  6th ed., 7.4.2.1 Eleventh  plenary  meeting,  18 May  1963  (Committee  on 
Administration,  Finance  and  Legal  Matters,  third 
report) 
