The Forty-eighth World Health Assembly, Recalling resolution WHA42.16 on the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction; resolutions WHA44.41 and WHA46.6 on emergency and humanitarian relief operations; resolution WHA46.39 on health and medical services in times of armed conflicts; resolution WHA47.28 on collaboration within the United Nations system and with other intergovernmental organizations; and resolution WHA47.29 on Rwanda; Recalling United Nations General Assembly resolutions 46 / 182 and 48 / 57 on strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian emergency assistance of the United Nations; Recalling also United Nations General Assembly resolution 49 / 22 of 13 December 1994 on the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, which calls upon all United Nations bodies and specialized agencies to participate actively in the implementation of the plan of action contained in the Yokohama Strategy fora Safer World and to consider this issue at the forthcoming sessions of their respective governing bodies; Recognizing that disaster reduction is an integral part of sustainable development and consequently each country bears the primary responsibility for strengthening its capacity to protect its people from various hazards; Recognizing further that the international eommunity has a responsibility to supplement national efforts in disaster management, especially through mobilization of humanitarian assistance; Reiterating the special needs of the disaster-prone countries; Convinced that the primary role of the United Nations and its specialized agencies is to support national efforts inaccordance with their respective sectoral responsibilities aswell as to assist Member States in strengthening their capacity to deal with the humanitarian and socioeconomic effects of complex emergency situations, 1. THANKS the Director-General for his reports on emergency and humanitarian action; 2. ADOPTS the strategy described in the report of the Director-General on emergency and humanitarian action;1 1 Document A48 / 5. ^JUJl^l^^^ RESOLUTION OF THE WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY RSOLUTION DE L'ASSEMBLE MON DIALE DE LA SANT RESOLUCION DE LA ASAMBLEA MUNDIAL DE LA SALUD 3. COMMENDS WHO for its role in promoting disaster reduction and in implementing related emergency prevention and preparedness strategies, and for improving its capacity to respond quickly and efficiently to urgent health needs arising from complex emergency situations; 4. ENDORSES the provisions of United Nations General Assembly resolution 49 / 22 of 13 December 1994 on the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction as they relate to the health sector; 5. URGES Member States: (1) to include disaster reduction and emergency preparedness regularly in their national and subnational development plans and to allocate national budgetary resources for this purpose; (2) to ensure permanent national and subnational mechanisms for intersectoral emergency management which include the health sector; 6. CALLS ON donors to give greater priority to health and nutrition aspects in the humanitarian assistance programmes which they carry out either ona bilateral ora multilateral basis, taking into consideration the coordinating role of WHO in all international health-related matters; 7. REQUESTS the Director-General within available resources: A. in emergency preparedness and disaster reduction 1. to continue to support the efforts of Member States to strengthen their capacity in the field of emergency preparedness so as to protect the development achievements of countries and reduce die vulnerability of communities at risk; 2. to seek extrabudgetary resources which will complement regular budgetary funds for this purpose; 3. to promote and support the development of regional, bilateral and country emergency preparedness programmes; 4. to intensify support for the emergency and humanitarian action programmes in disasterprone countries; 5. to continue to promote and actively take part in establishing, with appropriate partners in the United Nations system, a comprehensive, integrated and institutionalized approach to disaster reduction with the objective of ensuring comprehensive support to country programmes and related technical activities; 6. to ensure the coordinated participation of appropriate WHO technical programmes in disaster reduction and preparedness; 7. to further strengthen the technical and structural capacity of regional and interregional emergency preparedness centres; B. in emergency response add humanitarian action 1. to emphasize the Organization's responsibility for technical and normative guidance while retaining the necessary flexibility to carry out certain operational activities, when necessary; 2. to strengthen its partnership with governments, local authorities, organizations of the United Nations system, and particularly with the Department of Humanitarian Affairs (DHA)and with other humanitarian organizations, in the planning, implementation and monitoring of emergency, rehabilitation and recovery programmes; 3. to improve WHOs internal coordination and its capacity to provide effective coordination of health sector activities undertaken in response to emergencies in the field; 4. to strengthen the ability of WHO field offices, particularly in disaster-prone countries, to respond to early warning signals; C. in humanitarian advocacy 1. to strengthen WHO'S advocacy for the respect and protection of health personnel and infrastructure in conflict situations, inaccordance with the concept of health as an investment for peace; . \ 2. to advocate the protection of non-combatants and the setting-up of effective treatment and rehabilitation programmes for the victims of anti-personnel mines, aswell as the systematic management of delayed health effects of mental and physical injuries in situations of collective violence; 3. to present a progress report to the ninety-ninth session of the Executive Board. Eleventh plenary meeting, 8 May 1995 A48 / VR / 11