The Twentieth World Health Assembly, Having considered the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the World Health Assembly as proposed by the Executive Board at its thirty-ninth session, ADOPTS the amendments to the Rules of Procedure set forth below: 1 Rule 25 The Committee on Nominations, having regard to an equitable geographic distribution and to experience and personal competence, shall propose (a) to the Health Assembly from among the delegates nominations for the offices of the President and five vice-presidents of the Health Assembly, for the offices of chairman of each of the main committees, and for the members of the General Committee tobe elected underRule 31, and (b) to each of the main committees, setup underRule 34, nominations from among the delegates for the offices of vice-chairman and rapporteur. The proposals of the Committee on Nominations shall be forthwith communicated to the Health Assembly or to the main committees respectively. Rule 26 At each regular session, the Health Assembly, after consideration of the report of the Committee on Nominations, shall elect a President and five vice-presidents, who shall hold office until their successors are elected. Rule 28 The President may appoint one of the vice-presidents to take his place during a meeting or any part thereof. A vice-president acting as president shall have the same powers and duties as the President. If the President is unable to perform his functions during the remainder of the term for which he was elected, anew President shall be elected from among the five vice-presidents by the Health Assembly for the unexpired term. Rule 31 The General Committee of the Health Assembly shall consist of the President and vice-presidents of the Health Assembly, the chairmen of the main committees of the Health Assembly established underRule 34 and that number of delegates tobe elected by the Health Assembly after consideration of the report of the Committee on Nominations as shall provide a total of twenty-two members of the General Committee, provided that no delegation may have more than one representative on the Committee. The President of the Health Assembly shall convene, and preside over, meetings of the General Committee. Each member of the General Committee maybe accompanied by not more than one other member of his delegation. The President ora vice-president may designate a member of his delegation as his substitute in his capacity as member during a meeting or any part thereof. The chairman of amain committee shall, in the case of absence, designate the vice-chairman of the committee as his substitute, provided that the vice-chairman shall not have the right to vote if he is of the same delegation as another member of the General Committee. Each of the elected delegates shall be entitled to designate another member of his delegation to act as his substitute in the event of his absence from any meeting of the General Committee. Meetings of the General Committee shall beheld in private unless it decides otherwise. Handb. Res., 8th ed., 4.1.4 First plenary meeting, 8 May 1967