The Twentieth World Health Assembly, Considering the importance of compiling and publishing statistics of mortality and morbidity incomparable form; Having regard to Articles 2(s), 2l{b), 22 and 64 of the Constitution of the World Health Organization, ADOPTS, this twenty-second day of May 1967, the Nomenclature Regulations 1967; these Regulations maybe cited as the WHO Nomenclature Regulations. Article 1 Members of the World Health Organization for whom these Regulations shall come into force under Article 7 below shall be referred to hereinafter as Members. Article 2 Members compiling mortality and morbidity statistics shall do so inaccordance with the current revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases, Injuries, and Causes of Death as adopted from time to time by the World Health Assembly. This classification maybe cited as the International Classification of Diseases. Article 3 In compiling and publishing mortality and morbidity statistics Members shall comply as far as possible with recommendations made by the World Health Assembly as to classification, coding procedure, agegrouping, territorial areas tobe identified, and other relevant definitions and standards. Article 4 Members shall compile and publish annually for each calendar year statistics of causes of death for the metropolitan (home) territory as a whole or for such part thereof as information is available, and shall indicate the area covered by the statistics. Article 5 Members shall adopt a form of medical certificate of cause of death that provides for the statement of the morbid conditions or injuries resulting in or contributing to death, with a clear indication of the underlying cause. Article 6 Each Member shall, under Article 64 of the Constitution, provide the Organization on request with statistics prepared inaccordance with these Regulations and not communicated under Article 63 of the Constitution. Article 7 1. These Regulations shall come into force on the first day of January 1968. 2. Upon their entry into force these Regulations shall, subject to the exceptions hereinafter provided, replace as between the Members bound by these Regulations and as between these Members and the Organization, the provisions of the Nomenclature Regulations 1948 and subsequent revisions thereof. 3. Any revisions of the International Classification of Diseases adopted by the World Health Assembly pursuant to Article 2 of these Regulations shall enter into force on such date as is prescribed by the World Health Assembly and shall, subject to the exceptions hereinafter provided, replace any earlier classifications. Article 8 1. The period provided inexecution of Article 22 of the Constitution of the Organization for rejection or reservation shall be six months from the date of the notification by the Director-General of the adoption of these Regulations by the World Health Assembly. Any rejection or reservation received by the Director-General after the expiry of this period shall have no effect. 2. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall likewise apply in respect of any subsequent revision of the International Classification of Diseases adopted by the World Health Assembly pursuant to Article 2 of these Regulations. Article 9 A rejection, or the whole or part of any reservation, whether to these Regulations or to the International Classification of Diseases or any revision thereof, may at any time be withdrawn by notifying the DirectorGeneral. Article 10 The Director-General shall notify all Members of the adoption of these Regulations, of the adoption of any revision of the International Classification of Diseases aswell as of any notification received by him under Articles 8 and 9. Article II The original texts of these Regulations shall be deposited in the Archives of the Organization. Certified true copies shall be sent by the Director-General to all Members. Upon the entry into force of these Regulations, certified true copies shall be delivered by the Director-General to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for registration inaccordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations. IN FAITH WHEREOF, we have set our hands at Geneva this twenty-second day of May 1967. {signed) V. T. H. GUNARATNE President of the World Health Assembly (signed) M. G. CANDAU Director-General of the World Health Organization Handb. Res., 8th ed., 1.2.2 Tenth plenary meeting, 22 May 1967 (Committee on Programme and Budget, third report)