should be requested only when necessary for the purpose of the Organizations mandated activities and after all possible steps have been taken to finance such increases through savings, efficiencies and prior itization, 1. APPROVES the programme of work, as outlined in the Proposed programme budget 2018 2019; 2. APPROVES the budget for the financial period 2018 2019, under all sources of funds, namely, assessed and voluntary contributions of US$ 4421.5 million; 3. ALLOCATES the budget for the financial period 2018 2019 to the following categories and other areas: (1) Communicable diseases US$ 805.4 million; (2) Noncommunicable diseases US$ 351.4 million; 1 Document A70 / 7. 2 Document A70 / 59. WHA 70.5 2 (3) Promoting health through the life course US$ 384.3 million ; (4) Health systems US$ 589.5 million; (E) WHO Health Emergencies Programme US$ 554.2 million; (6) Enabling functions / corporate services US$ 715.5 million; Other areas: Polio (US$ 902.8 million), Tropical disease research (US$ 50.0 million), and Research inhuman reproduction (US$ 68.4 million) totalling US$ 1021.2 million; and Outbreak and crisis response and scalable operations, which is subject to the event driven nature of the activities concerned and, as such, does not have a budget requirement; 4. RESOL VES that the budget will be financed as follows: by net assessments on Member States adjusted for estimated Member State non-assessed income, ra total of US$ 956.9 million; from voluntary contributions, fora total of US$ 3464.6 million; 5. FURTHER RESOLVE S that the gross amount of the assessed contribution for each Member State shall be reduced by the sum standing to their credit in the Tax Equalization Fund; that reduction shall be adjusted in the case of those Members that require staff members to pay income taxes on their WHO emoluments, taxes which the Organization reimburses to said staff members; the amount of such tax reimbursements is estimated at US$ 31.8 million, resulting in a total assessment on Members of US$ 988.7 million; 6. DECIDES that the Working Capital Fund shall be maintained at its existing level of US$ 31 million; 7. AUTHORIZES the Director-General touse the assessed contributions together with the voluntary contributions, subject to the availability of resources, to finance the budget as a llocated in paragraph 3, up to the amounts approved; 8. FURTHER AUTHORIZES the Director-General, where necessary, to make budget transfers among the six categories, up to an amount not exceeding 5% of the amount allocated to the category from which the transfer is made. Any such transfers will be reported in the statutory reports to the respective governing bodies; 9. FURTHER AUTHORIZES the Director-General, where necessary, to incur expenditures in the Outbreak and crisis response and scalable operations subject to availability of resources; 10. FURTHER AUTHORIZES the Director-General, where necessary, to incur expenditures in the Polio, Tropical disease research, and Research inhuman reproduction components of the budget beyond the amount allocated for those compon ents, as a result of additional governance and resource WHA 70.5 3 mobilization mechanisms, aswell as their budget cycle, which inform the annual / biennial budgets for these special programmes, subject to availability of resources; 11. REQUESTS the Director-General: (1) to submit regular reports on the financing and implementation of the budget as presented in document A70 / 7 and on the outcome of the financing dialogue, the strategic allocation of flexible resources and the results of the coordinated resource mobilization strategy, through the Executive Board and its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee, to the World Health Assembly; (2) to submit regular reports on the availability of resources and expenditures under the components of Outbreak and crisis response and scalable operations, Polio and on the special programmes of the Tropical disease research, and Research on human reproduction components of the budget; (3) to provide additional information on the prioritization process anda plan, including details of the activities that should be discontinued, in preparation for the Thirteenth General Programme of Work, through the Executive Board and its Programme Budget and Administration Committee, to the Seventy-first World Health Assembly; (4) to control costs and seek efficiencies, and to submit regular reports with detailed information on savings and efficiencies aswell as an estimation of savings achieved. Eighth plenary meeting, 26 May 201 7 A70 / VR / 8 = = =