The Thirty-third World Health Assembly, WHA33.19 23 May 1980 Having considered the Director-General's light of its functions prepared in response report on the study of WHO'S structures in the to resolution WHA31.27, and in particular the Director-General's report on the periodicity of Health Assemblies and resolution EB65.R12; Having also considered the Executive Board's review of the periodicity of Health Assemblies, in response to resolution WHA32.26;^ Having in mind the need to preserve and strengthen the influence of the Member States in the Organization; Recognizing that the principle of biennial programming and budgeting has been implemented in WHO; Understanding that a change from annual to biennial Health Assemblies would necessitate changing the text of Articles 13 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution setout in the Director-General's report;2 Considering that action by the Health Assembly to amend the Constitution under Article 73 is not possible until the Members have had at least six months in advance of the Health Assembly to consider the text of any proposed amendment to the Constitution; Appreciating that many advantages could be obtained by shortening the Assemblies in alternate years; 1. REQUESTS the Director-General, within the provisions of Article 73 of the Constitution, to transmit this resolution, aswell as the text of the proposed constitutional amendments, to Member States for their consideration. 1 URGES Member States to give careful attention over the coming year to the necessary constitutional changes setout in the Director-General's report;2 3 REQUESTS the regional committees to consider the implications for their work of biennial Health Assemblies and report these to the Executive Board at its sixty-seventh session; 4. REQUESTS the Executive Board to examine the consequences of the introduction of biennial Health Assemblies for the work and functioning of all bodies of the Organization in particular, the Executive Board and the regional committees, with the aim of strengthening these, and to make appropriate recommendations to the Thirty-fourth World Health Assembly; 5. RECOMMENDS that the Thirty-fourth World Health Assembly in 1981, under Articles 73 and 60 of the Constitution, and on the basis of recommendations and conclusions of the Executive Board consider amending the texts of Articles 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution in order to permit the change from annual to biennial Health Assemblies, and at the same time consider taking other decisions relating to the structure. 6. BELIEVES that, as soon as possible, in the meantime Assemblies in the there is not a full Programme Budget to consider) should be limited to not weeks' duration. even years (when more than two L Documents / 2 and EB65 / l98o / REc / l, Annexes 8-10. Document EB65 / l98o / REc / l, Annex 8. J Document EB65 / I98O / REC / 2, pp. 173-188. UJ;^;^ RESOLUTION OF THE WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY RSOLUTION DE L'A S SEMBLE MONDIALE DE LA SANT RESOLUCION DE LA ASAMBLEA DE LA SALUD Seventeenth plenary meeting, 23 May 1980 A33 / VR / 17