WHA6.9  Expanded  Programme  of Technical  Assistance  in 1953 
The Sixth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  examined  the report  and  the resolution  of the Executive  Board  9 and  the report  of the DirectorGeneral  10  concerning  WHO  participation  in the  United  Nations  Expanded  Programme  of Technical 
Assistance  ; 
Having  noted  that  the Economic  and  Social  Council,  in its resolution  433A  (XIV),11  has  amended 
its basic  resolution  on Technical  Assistance,  No.  222  (IX)  ; 
Considering  that  an objective  study  of the administration  of the programme  is being  undertaken  by 
the Technical  Assistance  Board  for report  to the Technical  Assistance  Committee  at its July  1953  meeting, 
1. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to report  fully  to the Executive  Board  at its thirteenth  session  on the developments  resulting  from  this  study,  as well  as on other  developments  in the programme  ; 
2. DECIDES  to defer  to the Seventh  World  Health  Assembly  consideration  of the amendments  in resolution 
433A  (XIV)  of the Economic  and  Social  Council,  when  the results  of the objective  study  will  be known  and 
the report  of the Executive  Board  thereon  will  be available  ; 
3. APPROVES  the arrangements  made  by the Executive  Board  and  the Director-General  in so arranging 
for the use  of all resources  available  to WHO  in 1953  as to produce  as little  disruption  of the planned 
programme  as possible  ; 
4. EXPRESSES  its appreciation  to UNICEF  for its co-operation  in assisting  to solve  the financial  problem 
in 1953  ; 
5. EXPRESSES  the  hope  that  longer-term  arrangements  for  financing  future  programmes  will  be made, 
thereby  ensuring  firm  planning  and  arrangements  in good  time  ; and 
6. EXPRESSES  the hope  that  in future  the annual  Technical  Assistance  programme  of WHO  will  be planned 
by categories  of urgency  in such  a way  that  projects  could  be carried  out in order  of importance  and  to the 
extent  of available  resources.  ,  .  .  ^  ...  „  , (First  report  oj the  Committee  on  Programme  and Budget,  adopted  at  the  eighth  plenary  meeting, 15 May  1953) 
