WHA21.41  Pharmaceutical  Advertising 
The Twenty-first  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the  Director-General's  report  on pharmaceutical  advertising; 
Having  noted  resolution  EB4I.R24  of the  Executive  Board  on  the  matter; 
Considering  that,  if it is not  objective,  pharmaceutical  advertising  in whatever  form  is detrimental  to 
the health  of the  public;  and 
Holding  that  the  adherence  to certain  fundamental  principles  for  the  advertising  of pharmaceutical 
products  is essential, 
URGES  Member  States  to enforce  the  application  of the  ethical  and  scientific  criteria  for  pharmaceutical 
advertising  as annexed  to this  resolution. 
Handb.  Res.,  9th éd.,  1.10.1  Seventeenth  plenary  meeting,  23 May  1968  (Committee 
on Programme  and  Budget,  sixth  report) 
ANNEX 
ETHICAL  AND  SCIENTIFIC  CRITERIA  FOR  PHARMACEUTICAL  ADVERTISING 
All advertising  on a drug  should  be truthful  and  reliable.  It must  not  contain  incorrect  statements,  halftruths  or unverifiable  assertions  about  the  contents,  effects  (therapeutic  as well  as toxic)  or indications  of the drug 
or pharmaceutical  speciality  concerned. 
Advertising  to the Medical  and  Related  Professions 
In describing  the  properties  of a drug  and  its use,  stress  should  be laid  on rendering  facts  and  data,  whereas 
general  statements  should  be avoided.  Statements  should  be supported  by adequate  and  acceptable  scientific 
evidence.  Ambiguity  must  be avoided.  Promotional  material  should  not  be exaggerated  or misleading. 
A full  description,  based  on current  scientific  knowledge,  should  include  information  on the  producer  and 
sponsor  of the  product  advertised;  full  designation  (using  generic  or non-proprietary  names)  of the  nature  and 
content  of active  ingredient(s)  per  dose;  action  and  uses;  dosage,  form  of administration,  and  mode  of application; 
side-effects  and  adverse  reactions;  precautions  and  contra-indications;  treatment  in case  of poisoning;  and 
references  to the  scientific  or professional  literature. 
A fair  balance  should  be maintained  in presenting  information  on effectiveness  on the  one  hand  and  adverse 
reactions  and  contra-indications  on the  other. 
Advertising  to the Public 
Advertisements  to the  public  should  not  be permitted  for  prescription  drugs,  for  the  treatment  of certain 
diseases  and  conditions  which  can  be treated  only  by a doctor  and  of which  certain  countries  have  established 
lists,  or in a form  which  brings  about  fear  or distress,  or which  declares  specific  remedies  to be infallible,  or suggests 
that they  are  recommended  by members  of the  medical  profession. 
