 
 
 
SIXTY-NINTH  WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY  WHA 69.10 
Agenda item 11.3 28 May 20 16 
Framework of engagement with non -State actors  
 
The Sixty-ninth  World Health Assembly,  
Having considered the report on the framework of engagement with non -State actors and the 
revised draft framework of engagement with non -State actors;1 
Having noted the report of the Programme, Budget and Administration Committee of the 
Executive Board to the Sixty -ninth World Health Assembly;2 
Recalling resolution WHA64.2 (2011) and decision WHA65(9) (2012) on WHO reform, and 
decisions WHA67(14) (2014), EB136(3) (2015), EB138(3) (2016) and resolution WHA68.9 (2015) on 
a framework of engagement with non -State actors;  
Recalling a lso United Nations General Assembly resolution 70/1 “Transforming our world: the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development ”, and the equally important Goals, targets and means of 
implementation contained therein, which calls, inter alia, for a revitalized gl obal partnership for 
sustainable development, based on the spirit of strengthened global solidarity, focused in particular on 
the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable and with participation of all countries, a ll stakeholders 
and all people;  
Recalling a lso United Nations General Assembly resolution 69/313 on the Addis Ababa Action 
agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development (Addis Ababa,  
13–16 July 2015), which is an integral part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Developm ent;  
Recalling further the Rome Declaration on Nutrition and the Framework for Action on Nutrition 
adopted by the Second  International Conference on Nutrition (Rome, 19−21 November 2014);  
Underscoring the full political commitment of all Member States tow ards the consistent and 
coherent implementation of the framework of engagement with non -State actors across the three levels 
of the Organization,  
1. ADOPTS the Framework of Engagement with Non -State Actors, as set out in the Annex to this 
resolution;3 
                                                      
1 Document A69/6.  
2 Document A69/60.  
3 Consisting of an overarching framework and four specific policies on engagement with nongovernmental 
organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations and academic institutions.  WHA69.R10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 2. DECIDES that the Framework of Engagement with Non -State Actors shall replace the 
Principles governing relations between the World Health Organization and nongovernmental 
organizations1 and Guidelines on interaction with commercial enterprises to achieve he alth outcomes;2 
3. REQUESTS the Director General:  
(1) to immediately start implementation of the Framework of Engagement with Non -State 
Actors;  
(2) to take all necessary measures, working with Regional Directors, to fully implement the 
Framework of Engagem ent with Non -State Actors in a coherent and consistent manner across 
all three levels of the Organization, with a view to achieving full operationalization within a 
two-year timeframe;  
(3) to expedite the full establishment of the register of non -State act ors in time for the 
Seventieth World Health Assembly;  
(4) to report on the implementation of the Framework of Engagement with Non -State Actors 
to the Executive Board at each of its January sessions under a standing agenda item, through the 
Programme Budget  and Administration Committee;  
(5) to include in the report on the implementation of the Framework of Engagement with 
Non-State Actors, when deemed necessary, any matter or types of engagement with non -State 
actors that would benefit from further considera tion by the Executive Board, through its 
Programme Budget and Administration Committee, due to their unique characteristics and 
relevance;  
(6) to conduct an initial evaluation in 2019 of the implementation of the Framework of 
Engagement with Non -State Acto rs and its impact on the work of WHO with a view to 
submitting the results, together with any proposals for revisions of the Framework, to the 
Executive Board in January 2020, through its Programme Budget and Administration 
Committee;  
(7) to include in the  guide to staff, measures that pertain to application of the relevant 
provisions contained in the existing WHO policies on conflict of interest, with a view to 
facilitating the implementation of the Framework of Engagement with Non -State Actors ; 
(8) to dev elop, in consultation with Member States, a set of criteria and principles for 
secondments from nongovernmental organizations, philanthropic foundations and academic 
institutions and to submit the criteria and principles for the consideration of and establ ishment 
by, as appropriate, the Seventieth World Health Assembly, through the Executive Board, taking 
into account, amongst others, the following identified issues:  
(a) specific technical expertise needed and excluding managerial and/or sensitive 
positions ; 
                                                      
1 Adopted in resolution WHA40.25. See Basic documents, 48th e d. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014.  
2 Document EB107/20, Annex.  WHA69.R10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3 (b) the promotion of equitable geographical distribution;  
(c) transparency and clarity regarding positions sought, including public 
announcements;  
(d) secondments are temporary in nature not exceeding two years;  
(9) to make reference to secondments from non-State actors in the annual report on 
engagement with non -State actors  to be submitted , including justification behind secondments;  
4. REQUESTS the Independent Expert Oversight Advisory Committee, in accordance with its 
current terms of reference, to in clude a section on the implementation of the Framework of 
Engagement with Non -State Actors  in its report to the Programme, Budget and Administration 
Committee of the Executive Board at each January session;  
5. REQUESTS the Seventieth World Health Assembly to review progress on the implementation 
at the three levels of the Organization, with a view to taking any decisions necessary to enable the full, 
coherent and consistent implementation of the Framework of Engagement with Non -State Actors.  
 WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 ANNEX  
FRAMEWORK OF ENGAGEM ENT WITH NON -STATE ACTORS  
(adopted in resolution WHA69.10)  
OVERARCHING FRAMEWOR K OF ENGAGEMENT  
WITH NON -STATE ACTORS  
INTRODUCTION  
1. The overarching framework  of engagement with non -State actors and the WHO policy and 
operational procedures on management of engagement with non -State actors apply to all engagements 
with non -State actors at all levels of the Organization,1 whereas the four specific policies and 
operational procedures on engagement are limited in application to, respectively, nongovernmental 
organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations and academic institutions.  
ENGAGEMENT: RATIONAL E, PRINCIPLES, BENEF ITS AND RISKS  
Rationale  
2. WHO is the directing and coordinating authority in global health in line with its constitutional 
mandate. The global health landscape has become more complex in many respects; among other 
things, there has been an increase in the number of players includi ng non -State actors. WHO engages 
with non -State actors in view of their significant role in global health for the advancement and 
promotion of public health and to encourage non -State actors to use their own activities to protect and 
promote public health.  
3. The functions of WHO, as set out in Article 2 of its Constitution, include: to act as the directing 
and coordinating authority on international health work; to establish and maintain effective 
collaboration with diverse organizations; and to promote co operation among scientific and 
professional groups which contribute to the advancement of health. The Constitution further mandates 
the Health Assembly or the Executive Board, and the Director -General, to enter into specific 
engagements with other organiza tions.2 WHO shall, in relation to non -State actors, act in conformity 
with its Constitution and resolutions and decisions of the Health Assembly, and bearing in mind those 
of the United Nations General Assembly or the Economic and Social Council of the Uni ted Nations, if 
applicable.  
                                                      
1 Headquarters, regional offices and country offices, entities established under WHO, as well as hosted partnerships. 
For hosted partnerships the framework of engagement with non -State  actors will apply, subject to  the policy on WHO ’s 
engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements (resolution WHA63.10). Hosted, as well as external 
partnerships are explained in paragraph 48.  
2 WHO Constitution, Articles 18, 33, 41 an d 71.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  5 4. WHO ’s engagement with non -State actors supports implementation of the Organization ’s 
policies and recommendations as decided by the governing bodies, as well as the application of 
WHO ’s technical norms and standards. Such an effective engagement with non -State actors at global, 
regional and country levels, also calls for due diligence and transparency measures applicable to 
non-State actors under this framework. In order to be able to strengthen its engagement with non -State 
actors for the benefit and interest of global public health, WHO needs simultaneously to strengthen its 
management of the associated potential risks. This requires a robust framework that enables 
engagement and serves also as an instrument to identify the r isks, balancing them against the expected 
benefits, while protecting and preserving WHO ’s integrity, reputation and public health mandate.  
Principles  
5. WHO ’s engagement with non -State actors is guided by the following overarching principles.  
Any engagemen t must:  
(a) demonstrate a clear benefit to public health;  
(b) conform with WHO ’s Constitution, mandate and general programme of work  
(c) respect the intergovernmental nature of WHO and the decision -making authority of 
Member States as set out in the WHO ’s Constitution;  
(d) support and enhance, without compromising, the scientific and evidence -based approach 
that underpins WHO ’s work;  
(e) protect WHO from any undue influence, in particular on the processes in setting and  
applying policies, norms and standard s;1 
(f) not compromise WHO ’s integrity, independence, credibility and reputation;  
(g) be effectively managed, including by, where possible avoiding conflict of interest2 and 
other forms of risks to WHO;  
(h) be conducted on the basis of transparency, openne ss, inclusiveness, accountability, 
integrity and mutual respect.  
Benefits of engagement  
6. WHO ’s engagement with non -State actors can bring important benefits to global public health 
and to the Organization itself in fulfilment of its constitutional princi ples and objectives, including its 
directing and coordinating role in global health. Engagements range from major, longer -term 
collaborations to smaller, briefer interactions. Benefits arising from such engagement can also include:  
(a) the contribution of non-State actors to the work of WHO  
                                                      
1 Policies, norms and standard setting includes information gathering, preparation for, elaboration of and the decision 
on the normative text.  
2 As set out in paragraphs 2 2 to 26.  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 (b) the influence that WHO can have on non -State actors to enhance their impact on global 
public health or to influence the social, economic and environmental determinants of health  
(c) the influence that WHO can have on  non-State actors ’ compliance with WHO ’s policies, 
norms and standards  
(d) the additional resources non -State actors can contribute to WHO ’s work  
(e) the wider dissemination of and adherence by non -State actors to WHO ’s policies, norms 
and standards  
Risks of engagement  
7. WHO ’s engagement with non -State actors can involve risks which need to be effectively 
managed and, where appropriate, avoided. Risks relate inter alia to the occurrence in particular of the 
following:  
(a) conflicts of interest;  
(b) undue o r improper influence exercised by a non -State actor on WHO ’s work, especially 
in, but not limited to, policies, norms and standard setting;1 
(c) a negative impact on WHO ’s integrity, independence, credibility and reputation; and 
public health mandate;  
(d) the engagement being primarily used to serve the interests of the non -State actor 
concerned with limited or no benefits for WHO and public health;  
(e) the engagement conferring an endorsement of the non -State actor ’s name, brand, product,  
views or activity ;2 
(f) the whitewashing of a non -State actor ’s image through an engagement with WHO;  
(g) a competitive advantage for a non -State actor.  
NON -STATE ACTORS  
8. For the purpose of this framework, non -State actors are nongovernmental organizations, private 
secto r entities, philanthropic foundations and academic institutions.  
9. Nongovernmental organizations  are non -profit entities that operate independently of 
governments. They are usually membership -based, with non -profit entities or individuals as members 
exerc ising voting rights in relation to the policies of the nongovernmental organization, or are 
otherwise constituted with non -profit, public -interest goals. They are free from concerns which are 
                                                      
1 Policies, norms and standard setting includes information gathering,  preparation for, elaboration of and the decision 
on the normative text.  
2 Endorsement does not include established processes such as prequalifications or the WHO Pesticide Evaluation 
Scheme (WHOPES).    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  7 primarily of a private, commercial or profit -making nature. They  could include, for example, 
grassroots community organizations, civil society groups and networks, faith -based organizations, 
professional groups, disease -specific groups, and patient groups.  
10. Private sector  entities are commercial enterprises, that is  to say businesses that are intended to 
make a profit for their owners. The term also refers to entities that represent, or are governed or 
controlled by, private sector entities. This group includes (but is not limited to) business associations 
representi ng commercial enterprises, entities not “at arm ’s length ”1 from their commercial sponsors, 
and partially or fully State -owned commercial enterprises acting like private sector entities.  
International business associations  are private sector entities that do not intend to make a profit for 
themselves but represent the interests of their members, which are commercial enterprises  and/or 
national or other business associations. For the purposes of this framework, they shall ha ve the 
authority to speak for their members through their authorized representatives. Their members shall 
exercise voting rights in relation to the policies of the international business association.  
11. Philanthropic foundations  are non -profit entities wh ose assets are provided by donors and 
whose income is spent on socially useful purposes. They shall be clearly independent from any private 
sector entity in their governance and decision -making.  
12. Academic institutions  are entities engaged in the pursuit  and dissemination of knowledge 
through research, education and training.2 
13. For each of the four groups of entities above, the overarching framework and the respective 
specific policy on engagement apply. WHO will determine through its due diligence if a non -State 
actor is subject to the influence of private sector entities to the extent that the non -State actor has to be 
considered itself a private sector entity. Such influence can be exerted through financing, participation 
in decision making or otherw ise. Provided that the decision -making processes and bodies of a non State actor remain independent of undue influence from the private sector, WHO can decide to 
consider the entity as a nongovernmental organization, a philanthropic foundation or an academ ic 
institution, but may apply relevant provisions of the WHO ’s policy and operational procedures on 
engagement with private sector entities, such as not accepting financial and in -kind contributions for 
use in the normative work.  
TYPES OF INTERACTION  
14. The following are categories of interaction in which WHO engages with non -State actors. Each 
type of interaction can take different forms, be subject to different levels of risk and can involve 
different levels and types of engagement by the Organization.  
                                                      
1 An entity is “at arm ’s length ” from another entity if  it is independent from the other entity, does not take 
instructions and is clearly not influenced or clearly not reasonably perceived to be influenced in its decisions and work by the 
other entity.  
2 This can include think tanks which are policy -oriented institutions, as long as they primarily perform research; 
while international associations of academic institutions are considered as nongovernmental organizations, subject to 
paragraph 1 3. WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 Participation  
15. Non-State actors may attend various types of meetings organized by WHO. The nature of their 
participation depends on the type of meeting concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation 
of non -State actors in consultations, hearing s, and other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by 
the WHO governing bodies or by the Secretariat.  
(a) Meetings of the governing bodies . This type involves sessions of the World Health 
Assembly, the Executive Board and the six regional committees.  Non-State actors ’ participation 
is determined by the governing bodies ’ respective rules of procedure, policies and practices as 
well as the section of this framework that deals with official relations.  
(b) Consultations . This type includes any physical or  virtual meeting, other than governing 
body sessions, organized for the purpose of exchanging information and views. Inputs received 
from non -State actors shall be made publicly available, wherever possible.  
(c) Hearings . These are meetings in which the pa rticipants can present their evidence, views 
and positions and be questioned about them but do not enter into a debate. Hearings can be 
electronic or in person. All interested entities should be invited on the same basis. The 
participants and positions pre sented during hearings shall be documented and shall be made 
publicly available, wherever possible.  
(d) Other meetings . These are meetings that are not part of the process of setting policies,  
norms or standards; examples include information meetings, brie fings, scientific conferences, 
and platforms for coordination of actors.  
16. WHO ’s involvement in meetings organized wholly or partly by a non -State actor can – subject 
to the provisions of this framework, its four specific policies and operational procedu res, and other 
applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures – consist of any one of the following possibilities:  
• WHO jointly organizes the meeting with the non -State actor  
• WHO cosponsors a meeting1 organized by the non -State actor  
• WHO staff make a present ation or act as panellists at a meeting organized by the non -State 
actor  
• WHO staff attend a meeting organized by a non -State actor.  
Resources  
17. Resources are financial or in -kind contributions. In -kind contributions include donations of 
medicines and other goods and free provision of services2 on a contractual basis.  
                                                      
1 Cosponsorship of a meeting means: (1) another entity has the pri mary responsibility for organizing the meeting; and 
(2) WHO supports and contributes to the meeting and its proceedings; and (3) WHO reserves the right to clear the agenda of 
the meeting, the list of participants and the outcome documents of the meeting.  
2 With the exception of secondments, which are covered in paragraph 4 7.   WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  9 Evidence  
18. For the purposes of this framework, evidence refers to inputs based on up -to-date information, 
knowledge on technical issues, and consideration of scientific facts, independently analysed by WHO. 
Evidence generation by WHO includes information gathering, analysis, generation of information and 
the management of knowledge and research. Non -State actors may provide their up -to-date 
information and knowledge on technical  issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, 
subject to the provisions of this framework, its four specific policies and operational procedures, and 
other applicable WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publ icly 
available, as appropriate, wherever possible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly 
available.  
Advocacy  
19. Advocacy is action to increase awareness of health issues, including issues that receive 
insufficient attention; to change beha viours in the interest of public health; and to foster collaboration 
and greater coherence between non -State actors where joint action is required.  
Technical collaboration  
20. For the purpose of this framework, technical collaboration refers to other colla boration with 
non-State actors, as appropriate, in activities that fall within the General Programme of Work, 
including:  
• product development  
• capacity -building  
• operational collaboration in emergencies  
• contributing to the implementation of WHO ’s policies.  
MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICT  OF INTEREST AND OTHE R RISKS OF 
ENGAGEMENT  
21. Managing, including by, where appropriate, avoiding, conflict of interest and other risks of 
engagement requires a series of steps, as set out below:1 
• WHO needs to know the non -State actors  that it engages with. Therefore each non -State actor 
is required to provide all relevant2 information about itself and its activities, following which 
WHO conducts the necessary due diligence.  
• WHO conducts a risk assessment in order to identify the specif ic risks of engagement 
associated with each engagement with a non -State actor.  
                                                      
1 The framework is designed to regulate institutional engagements; its implementation is closely coordinated with the 
implementation of other organizational policies regulating conflict  of interest in respect of individuals (see paragraph 4 9). 
2 As defined in paragraph 3 9. WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 • Risks of engagement need to be managed and communicated coherently in each of the three 
levels of the Organization and throughout the Organization. To that end, WHO manages 
enga gement through a single, Organization -wide electronic tool.1 
• Member States exercise oversight over WHO ’s engagement with non -State actors in 
accordance with the provisions in paragraphs 67 and 68.  
Conflict of interest  
22. A conflict of interest arises in c ircumstances where there is potential for a secondary interest (a 
vested interest in the outcome of WHO ’s work in a given area) to unduly influence, or where it may be 
reasonably perceived to unduly influence, either the independence or objectivity of prof essional 
judgement or actions regarding a primary interest (WHO ’s work) The existence of conflict of interest 
in all its forms does not as such mean that improper action has occurred, but rather the risk of such 
improper action occurring. Conflicts of inte rest are not only financial, but can take other forms as well.  
23 Individual conflicts of interests within WHO are those involving experts, regardless of their 
status, and staff members; these are addressed in accordance with the policies listed under 
paragraph  49 of the present framework.  
24. All institutions have multiple interests, which means that in engaging with non -State actors 
WHO is often faced with a combination of converging and conflicting interests. An institutional 
conflict of interest  is a si tuation where WHO ’s primary interest as reflected in its Constitution may be 
unduly influenced by the conflicting interest of a non -State actor in a way that affects, or may 
reasonably be perceived to affect, the independence and objectivity of WHO ’s work.  
25. In actively managing institutional conflict of interest and the other risks of engagement 
mentioned in paragraph 7 above, WHO aims to avoid allowing the conflicting interests of a non -State 
actor to exert, or be reasonably perceived to exert, undue in fluence over the Organization ’s decision making process or to prevail over its interests.  
26. For WHO, the potential risk of institutional conflicts of interest could be the highest in 
situations where the interest of non -State actors, in particular economic, commercial or financial, are 
in conflict with WHO ’s public health policies, constitutional mandate and interests, in particular the 
Organization ’s independence and impartiality in setting policies, norms and standards.  
Due diligence and risk asse ssment  
27. When the possibility of entering into an engagement is being considered, the relevant technical 
unit in the Secretariat conducts an initial examination in order to establish whether such an 
engagement would be in the interest of the Organization  and in line with the principles of WHO ’s 
engagement with non -State actors in paragraph 5 and the priorities defined in the General Programme 
of Work and Programme budget. If this seems to be the case, the technical unit consults the WHO 
Register on non -State actors and as needed  asks the non -State actor to provide its basic information. 
                                                      
1 WHO uses an electronic tool for managing engagement. As described in footnote 1 of paragraph 38, the publicly 
visible part of the tool is the register of non -State actors; the tool also provides an electronic workflow for the internal 
management of engagement. A similar electronic tool is used for the management of individual conflicts of interest, in order 
to harmonize the implementation of the framework with the implementation of the policy on management of individual 
conflicts of interest for experts.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  11 Using the Organization -wide electronic tool, the unit then complements this information with a 
description of the proposed engagement and  its own assessment of the benefits and risks involved, as 
needed.  
28 The technical unit makes an initial assessment. If the engagement is of low risk, for example 
because of its repetitive nature1 or because it does not involve policies, norms and standar d setting, a 
simplified due diligence and risk assessment modulating the procedures in paragraphs 29 to 36 as well 
as 39 can be performed by the technical unit and the risk management decision taken, taking such 
steps as are necessary to ensure full compli ance with paragraphs 5 to 7.2 For all other engagements full 
procedures apply.  
29. Before engaging with any non -State actor, WHO, in order to preserve its integrity, conducts due 
diligence and risk assessment . Due diligence  refers to the steps taken by WHO  to find and verify 
relevant information on a non -State actor and to reach a clear understanding of its profile. While due 
diligence refers to the nature of the non -State actor concerned, risk assessment  refers to the 
assessment of a specific proposed enga gement with that non -State actor.  
30. Due diligence  combines a review of the information provided by the non -State actor, a search 
for information about the entity concerned from other sources, and an analysis of all the information 
obtained. This includes  a screening of different public, legal and commercial sources of information, 
including: media; the entity ’s website companies ’ analyst reports, directories and profiles; and public, 
legal and governmental sources.  
31. The core functions of due diligence are to:  
• clarify the nature and purpose of the entity proposed to engage with WHO;  
• clarify the interest and objectives of the entity in engaging with WHO and what it expects in 
return;  
• determine the entity ’s legal status, area of activities, membership, gov ernance, sources of 
funding, constitution, statutes, and by -laws and affiliation;  
• define the main elements of the history and activities of the entity in terms of the following: 
health, human and labour issues; environmental, ethical and business issues; r eputation and 
image; and financial stability;  
• identify if paragraph 44 or 45 should be applied.  
32. Due diligence also allows the Secretariat for the purpose of its engagement to categorize each 
non-State actor in relation to one of the four groups of non -State actors on the basis of its nature, 
objectives, governance, funding, independence and membership. This categorization is indicated in the 
register of non -State actors.  
                                                      
1 Provided that due diligence and risk assessment have already been carried out and the nature of engagement has 
remained unchanged.  
2 The simplified due dilige nce and risk assessment, and information to be provided by non -State actors as well as the 
criteria of low risk engagements are described in the guide for staff.  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 33. Risks are the expression of the likelihood and potential impact of an event tha t would affect the 
Organization ’s ability to achieve its objectives. A risk assessment  on a proposed engagement is 
conducted in addition to due diligence. This involves the assessment of risks associated with an 
engagement with a non -State actor, in partic ular the risks described in paragraph 7 and is to be 
conducted without prejudice to the type of non -State actor.  
Risk management  
34. Risk management  concerns the process leading to a management decision whereby the 
Secretariat decides explicitly and justif iably on entry into engagement,1 continuation of engagement, 
engagement with measures to mitigate risks, non -engagement or disengagement from an existing or 
planned engagement with non -State actors. It is a management decision usually taken by the unit 
engaging with the non -State actor based on a recommendation of the specialized unit responsible for 
performing due diligence and risk assessment.  
35. A dedicated secretariat mechanism reviews proposals of engagement referred to it and 
recommends engagement, c ontinuation of engagement, engagement with measures to mitigate risks, 
non engagement or disengagement from an existing or planned engagement with non -State actors. The 
Director -General, working with the Regional Directors, ensures coherence and consistenc y in 
implementation and interpretation of this Framework across all levels of the Organization.  
36. WHO takes a risk -management approach to engagement, only entering into an engagement with 
a non -State actor when the benefits in terms of direct or indirect  contributions to public health and the 
fulfilment of the Organization ’s mandate as mentioned in paragraph 6 outweigh any residual risks of 
engagement as mentioned in paragraph 7, as well as the time and expense involved in establishing and 
maintaining the  engagement.  
Transparency  
37. WHO ’s interaction with non -State actors is managed transparently. WHO provides an annual 
report to the governing bodies on its engagement with non -State actors, including summary 
information on due diligence, risk assessment a nd risk management undertaken by the Secretariat. 
WHO also makes publicly available appropriate information on its engagement with non -State actors.  
38. The WHO register of non -State actors  is an Internet -based, publicly available electronic tool 
used by t he Secretariat2 to document and coordinate engagement with non -State actors. It contains the 
main standard information provided by non -State actors3 and high -level descriptions of the 
engagement that WHO has with these actors.4 
                                                      
1 Other than decisions related to official relations as set out in paragraphs 50 to 57. 
2 The register of non -State actors is the first level of a tool used by the Secretariat containing four levels of 
information: a publicly available level, a level made available to Member States, a working level for the Secretariat, and a 
level of confidential a nd sensitive information accessible to a limited number of individuals within the Secretariat.  
3 Information on financial contributions received from non -State actors is documented in this register and in the 
Programme Budget web portal.  
4 The register cov ers all three levels of the Organization – global, regional and country – and includes hosted 
partnerships and joint programmes.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  13 39 Non-State actors engaging  with WHO are required to provide information on their organization. 
This information includes: name, membership, legal status, objective, governance structure, 
composition of main decision -making bodies, assets, annual income and funding sources, main 
relevant affiliations, webpage and one or more focal points for WHO contacts.  
40. When the Secretariat decides on an engagement with a non -State actor, a summary of the 
information submitted by that entity and held in the WHO register of non -State actors is m ade public. 
The accuracy of the information provided by the non -State actor and published in the register is the 
responsibility of the non -State actor concerned and does not constitute any form of endorsement 
by WHO.  
41. Non-State actors described in the r egister must update the information provided on themselves 
annually or upon the request of WHO. Information in the WHO register of non -State actors will be 
dated. Information on entities that are no longer engaged with WHO or that have not updated their 
information will be marked as “archived ”. Archived information from the WHO register of non -State 
actors can be considered in relation to future applications for engagement, where relevant.  
42. In addition to the publicly available information, Member States  have electronic access to a 
summary report on due diligence of each non -State actor and their respective risk assessment and risk 
management on engagement. Member States also have access, on demand, to the associated full report 
through a remote secure ac cess platform.  
43. WHO maintains a handbook to guide non -State actors in their interaction with WHO in line 
with this framework. A guide for staff is also maintained on the implementation of the framework of  
engagement with non -State actors.  
SPECIFIC PROVI SIONS  
44. WHO does not engage with the tobacco industry or non -State actors that work to further the 
interests of the tobacco industry. WHO also does not engage with the arms industry.  
Engagement where particular caution should be exercised  
45 WHO will exercise particular caution, especially while conducting due diligence, risk 
assessment and risk management, when engaging with private sector entities and other non -State 
actors whose policies or activities are negatively affecting human health and are no t in line with 
WHO ’s policies, norms and standards, in particular those related to noncommunicable diseases and 
their determinants.  
Association with WHO ’s name and emblem  
46. WHO ’s name and emblem  are recognized by the public as symbols of integrity and qu ality 
assurance. WHO ’s name, acronym and emblem shall not, therefore, be used for, or in conjunction 
with, commercial, promotional marketing and advertisement purposes. Any use of the name or 
emblem needs an explicit written authorization by the Director -General of WHO.1 
                                                      
1 See http://www.who.int/about/licensing/emblem/en/ . WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 Secondments  
47. WHO does not accept secondments from private sector entities.  
RELATION OF THE FRAM EWORK TO WHO ’S OTHER POLICIES  
48. This framework replaces the Principles Governing Relations between the World Health 
Organization and Nongove rnmental Organizations1 and the Guidelines on interaction with commercial 
enterprises to achieve health outcomes (noted by the Executive Board).2 
49. The implementation of the policies listed below as they relate to WHO ’s engagement with non State actors w ill be coordinated and aligned with the framework of engagement with non -State actors. 
In the event that a conflict is identified, it will be brought to the attention of the Executive Board 
through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee.  
(a) Policy on WHO ’s engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements.3 
(i) Hosted partnerships derive their legal personality from WHO and are subject to the 
Organization ’s rules and regulations. Therefore the Framework of engagement with non State actors applies to their engagement with non -State actors. They have a formal 
governance structure, separate from that of the WHO governing bodies, in which 
decisions are taken on direction, workplans and budgets; and their programmatic 
accountability  frameworks are also independent from those of the Organization. In the 
same way the framework applies to other hosted entities which are subject to the 
Organizations Rules and Regulations.  
(ii) WHO ’s involvement in external partnerships is regulated by th e policy on WHO ’s 
engagement with global health partnerships and hosting arrangements. The framework of 
engagement with non -State actors also applies to WHO ’s engagement in these 
partnerships.4 
(b) Regulations for Expert Advisory Panels and Committees and the Guidelines for 
Declaration of Interests (WHO Experts). The management of WHO ’s relations with individual 
experts is regulated by the Regulations for Expert Advisory Panels and Committees5 and the 
Guidelines for Declaration of Interests (WHO Experts).  
(c) Staff Regulations and Staff Rules. All staff are subject to the Organization ’s Staff 
Regulations and Staff Rules, noting in particular the provisions of declaration of interest therein: 
                                                      
1 Basic docu ments, 48th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014: pp.97 –102. 
2 See document EB107/2001/REC/2, summary record of the twelfth meeting.  
3 Endorsed by the Health Assembly in resolution WHA63.10 on partnerships and its Annex 1.  
4The Codex Alimentarius Co mmission is an intergovernmental body which is the principal organ of the joint 
FAO/WHO food standards programme for which the administration is not solely provided by WHO. The Commission is 
supported by subsidiary bodies including Codex committees, region al coordinating committees and task forces.   
Meetings of the Commission, Committees, including independent expert committees, and Task Forces are regulated by the 
Rules of Procedure and other decisions adopted by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.  
5 See Ba sic documents,  48th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014: pp.121 –130.   WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  15 according to Article 1.1 of the Staff Regulations of the World Heal th Organization, all staff 
members “pledge themselves to discharge their functions and to regulate their conduct with the 
interests of the World Health Organization only in view. ” 
(d) Regulations for Study and Scientific Groups, Collaborating Institutions and other 
Mechanisms of Collaboration. Scientific collaborations are regulated by the Regulations for 
Study and Scientific Groups, Collaborating Institutions and other Mechanisms of 
Collaboration.1 
(e) Financial Rules and Financial Regulations.  
(i) The procurement of goods and services is regulated by the Financial Rules and 
Financial Regulations;2 it is not covered by the framework of engagement with non -State 
actors, although pro -bono contributions from non -State actors are covered.  
(ii) Like any other  financing of WHO, financing from non -State actors is regulated by 
the Financial Rules and Financial Regulations and the decision on accepting such 
financial contributions is also regulated by this framework.  
OFFICIAL RELATIONS  
50. “Official relations ” is a privilege that the Executive Board may grant to nongovernmental 
organizations, international business associations and philanthropic foundations that have had and 
continue to have a sustained and systematic engagement3 in the interest of the Organization . The aims 
and activities of all these entities shall be in conformity with the spirit, purposes and principles of 
WHO ’s Constitution, and they shall contribute significantly to the advancement of public health. 
Organizations in official relations can atte nd governing body meetings of WHO but are otherwise 
subject to the same rules as other non -State actors when engaging with WHO.  
51. Entities in official relations are international in membership and /or scope. All entities in official 
relations shall have a constitution or similar basic document, an established headquarters, a governing 
body, an administrative structure, and a regularly updated entry in the WHO register of non -State 
actors.  
52. Official relations shall be based on a plan for collaboration b etween WHO and the entity with 
agreed objectives and outlining activities for the coming three -year period structured in accordance 
with the General Programme of Work and Programme budget and consistent with this framework. 
This plan shall also be publishe d in the WHO register of non -State actors. These organizations shall 
provide annually a short report on the progress made in implementing the plan of collaboration and 
other related activities which will also be published in the WHO register. These plans s hall be free 
from concerns which are primarily of a commercial or profit -making nature.  
                                                      
1 Basic documents,  48th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014: pp.131 –138. 
2 Basic documents, 48th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014: pp.103 –113. 
3 At least two years of systematic engagement as documented in the WHO register of non -State actors, assessed by 
both parties to be mutually beneficial. Participation in each other ’s meetings alone is not considered to be a systematic 
engagement.  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 53.  For nongovernmental organizations working on global health issues, sustained and systematic 
engagement could include research and active advocacy around WHO meetin gs and WHO ’s policies, 
norms and standards. Official relations may be considered for such nongovernmental organizations 
based on at least three years of their activities and future work plan on research and advocacy on 
global public health issues.  
54. The Executive Board shall be responsible for deciding on the admission of organizations into 
official relations with WHO and shall review this status every three years. The Director -General may 
propose international nongovernmental organizations, philanthropic  foundations and international 
business associations for admission. The Director -General can also propose an earlier review based on 
the experience in the collaboration with the organization concerned.  
55. Entities in official relations are invited to part icipate in sessions of WHO ’s governing bodies. 
This privilege shall include:  
(a) the possibility to appoint a representative to participate, without right of vote, in meetings 
of WHO ’s governing bodies or in meetings of the committees and conferences convened under 
its authority;  
(b) the possibility to make a statement if the Chairman of the meeting (i) invites them to do 
so or (ii) accedes to their request when an item in which the related entity is particularly 
interested is being discussed;  
(c) the possibility to submit the statement referred to in subparagraph (b) above in advance of 
the debate for the Secretariat to post on a dedicated website.  
56. Non-State actors participating in WHO governing bodies ’ meetings shall designate a head of 
their dele gation and declare the affiliations of their delegates. This declaration shall include the 
function of each delegate within the non -State actor itself and, where applicable, the function of that 
delegate within any affiliated organization.  
57. Regional com mittees may also decide on a procedure granting accreditation to their meetings to 
other international, regional, and national1 non-State actors not in official relations with WHO as long 
as the procedure is managed in accordance with this framework.  
Proce dure for admitting and reviewing organizations in official relations  
58. The application for admission into official relations shall be based on the up -to-date entries in 
the WHO register of non -State actors, providing all the necessary information as requ ested on the 
non-State actor ’s nature and activities. The application shall include a summary of past engagement as 
documented in the register of non -State actors and a three -year plan for collaboration with WHO that 
has been developed and agreed on jointl y by the non -State actor and WHO.  
59. A signed letter certifying the accuracy of the application for official relations submitted online 
shall reach WHO headquarters no later than the end of the month of July for submission to the 
Executive Board at its se ssion the following January. Applications for official relations shall be 
reviewed to ensure that the established criteria and other requirements are fulfilled as set out in this 
                                                      
1 In accordance with WHO  Constitution, Article 71.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  17 framework. Applications should be transmitted to the Executive Board members by the Secretariat 
six weeks before the opening of the January session of the Executive Board at which they will be 
considered.  
60. During the Board ’s January session, the Programme, Budget and Administration Committee of 
the Executive Board shall consider  applications submitted and shall make recommendations to the 
Board. A representative of an applicant organization may be invited by the Committee to speak before 
it in connection with that organization ’s application. Should the applicant organization be c onsidered 
not to meet the established criteria, and bearing in mind the desirability of ensuring a valuable 
continuing partnership based on defined objectives and evidenced by a record of successful past 
engagement and a framework for future collaborative activities, the Committee may recommend 
postponement of consideration or rejection of an application.  
61. The Board, after considering the recommendations of the Committee, shall decide whether an 
organization is to be admitted into official relations with  WHO. A reapplication from a non -State actor 
shall not normally be considered until two years have elapsed since the Board ’s decision on the 
previous application.  
62. The Director -General shall inform each organization of the Board ’s decision on its applic ation. 
The Director -General shall document decisions taken within the Secretariat and by the Executive 
Board on applications from non -State actors, reflect this status in the WHO register of non -State 
actors, and maintain a list of the organizations admitt ed into official relations.  
63. The entities in official relations and the Secretariat should name focal points for collaboration who 
are responsible for informing each other and their organizations of any developments in the 
implementation of the plan for  collaboration and who are the first points of contact for any changes or 
problems.  
64. The Board, through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee, shall review 
collaboration with each non -State actor in official relations every three years and shall decide on the 
desirability of maintaining official relations or defer the decision on the review to the following year. 
The Board ’s review shall be spread over a three -year period, one third of the entities in official 
relations being reviewed each y ear. 
65. The Director -General can propose earlier reviews of a non -State actor ’s official relations with 
WHO by the Executive Board through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee in case 
of issues such as non -fulfilment of the entity ’s part in the plan of collaboration, lack of contact, failure 
by the non -State actor to fulfil its reporting requirements or changes in the nature or activities of the 
organization concerned, the non -State actor ceasing to fulfil the criteria for admission, or any p otential 
new risks for the collaboration.  
66. The Board may discontinue official relations if it considers that such relations are no longer 
appropriate or necessary in the light of changing programmes or other circumstances. Similarly, the 
Board may suspe nd or discontinue official relations if an organization no longer meets the criteria that 
applied at the time of the establishment of such relations, fails to update its information and report on 
the collaboration in the WHO register on non -State actors or  fails to fulfil its part in the agreed 
programme of collaboration.  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 OVERSIGHT OF ENGAGEM ENT  
67. The Executive Board, through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee, oversees 
the implementation of WHO ’s framework of engagement with non -State act ors, proposes revisions to 
the framework and can grant the privileges of official relations to international nongovernmental 
organizations, philanthropic foundations and international business associations.  
68. The Programme Budget and Administration Commi ttee of the Executive Board shall review, 
provide guidance and, as appropriate, make recommendations to the Executive Board on:  
(a) oversight of WHO ’s implementation of the framework of engagement with non -State 
actors including:  
(i) consideration of the a nnual report on engagement with non -State actors submitted 
by the Director -General  
(ii) any other matter on engagement referred to the Committee by the Board  
(b) entities in official relations with WHO, including:  
(i) proposals for admitting non -State acto rs into official relations  
(ii) review of renewals of entities in official relations  
(c) any proposal, when needed, for revisions of the framework of engagement with non -State 
actors.  
NON -COMPLIANCE WITH THIS  FRAMEWORK  
69. Non-compliance can include inter alia the following: significant delays in the provision of 
information to the WHO register of non -State actors; provision of wrong information; use of the 
engagement with WHO for purposes other than protecting and promoting public health, such as for 
comme rcial, promotional, marketing and advertisement  purposes; misuse of WHO ’s name and 
emblem; attempt at undue influence; and abuse of the privileges c onferred by official relations.  
70. Non-compliance by a non -State actor with the provisions of this framewor k can have 
consequences for the entity concerned after due process including a reminder, a warning, a cease -anddesist letter, a rejection of renewal of engagement and termination of engagement. The review of the 
status of official relations by the Executi ve Board can be anticipated and non -compliance can be the 
reason for non -renewal of official relations. Except in the case of important and intentional cases of 
non-compliance the non -State actor concerned should not be automatically excluded from other 
engagements with WHO.  
71. Any financial contribution received by WHO that is subsequently discovered to be non compliant with the terms of this framework shall be returned to the contributor.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  19 IMPLEMENTATION  
72. Consistent with the principles identified in pa ragraph 5, this framework will be implemented in 
its entirety in a manner that manages and strengthens WHO ’s engagement with non -State actors 
towards the attainment of public health objectives, including through multistakeholder partnerships, 
whilst protec ting and preserving WHO ’s integrity, independence, credibility and reputation;  
73. The Director -General, in the application of this framework, when responding to acute public health 
events described in the International Health Regulations (2005) or other e mergencies with health 
consequences, will act according to the WHO Constitution1 and the principles identified in this 
framework. In doing so, the Director -General may exercise flexibility as might be needed in the 
application of the procedures of this fra mework in those responses, when he/she deems necessary, in 
accordance with WHO ’s responsibilities as health cluster lead, and the need to engage quickly and 
broadly with non -State actors for coordination, scale up and service delivery2. The Director -Genera l 
will inform Member States through appropriate means,3 including in particular written 
communication, without undue delay when such a response requires exercise of flexibility, and 
include summary information with justification on the use of such flexibility in the annual report on 
engagement with non -State a ctors.  
MONITORING AND EVALU ATION OF THE FRAMEWO RK 
74. The implementation of the framework will be constantly monitored internally and by the 
Executive Board through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee in the annual report 
on engagement with non-State actors and the assessment of information available in the register of 
non-State actors.  
75. Furthermore, the implementation of the framework should be periodically evaluated. The results 
of such evaluation, together with any proposals for revisio ns of the framework, shall also be submitted 
to the Executive Board through its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee.  
  
                                                      
1 Including Article  2(d) of the WHO Constitution.  
2 Taking into account resolution WHA65.20 (WHO ’s response, and role as the health cluster lead, in meeting the 
growing demands of health in humanitarian emergencies).  
3 Including as described in U nited Nations  General Assembly resolution 46/182 (Strengthening of the coordination of 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations), which establishes the Secretary -General ’s emergency relief coordinator, and 
the International Health Reg ulations (2005).  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 WHO POLICY AND OPERA TIONAL PROCEDURES ON  ENGAGEMENT  
WITH NONGOVERNMENTAL  ORGANIZATIONS  
1. This policy regulates specifically WHO ’s engagement with nongovernmental organizations by 
type of interaction.1 The provisions of the overarching framework also apply to all engagements with 
nongovernmental organizations.  
PARTICIPATION  
Participation by nongovernmental organizations in WHO m eetings2 
2. WHO can invite nongovernmental organizations to participate in consultations, hearings or 
other meetings in accordance with paragraph 15 of the overarching framework. Consultations and 
hearings can be electronic or in person.  
3. Participation i n other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the 
nongovernmental organization has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the 
deliberations of the meeting. Such participation is for the exchange of information and views, but 
never for the formulation of advice.  
4. The nature of participation of nongovernmental organizations depends on the type of meeting 
concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation of nongovernmental organizations in 
consultations, h earings, and other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by the WHO governing 
bodies or by the Secretariat. Participation and inputs received from nongovernmental organizations 
shall be made publicly available, wherever possible. Nongovernmental orga nizations do not take part 
in any decision -making process of the Organization.  
Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by nongovernmental organizations  
5. WHO can organize joint meetings, or cosponsor meetings organized by nongovernmental 
organizations, as long as the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are preserved, 
and as long as this participation furthers WHO ’s objectives as expressed in the General Programme of 
Work. WHO staff members may participate in meetings org anized by nongovernmental organizations 
in accordance with the internal rules of the Organization. The nongovernmental organization shall not 
misrepresent WHO ’s participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and 
shall agree not to use WHO ’s participation for promotional purposes.  
Specific policies and operational procedures  
6. The participation of WHO in meetings organized by nongovernmental organizations as 
co-organizers, cosponsors, panellists or speakers shall be managed accor ding to the provisions of this 
Framework.  
                                                      
1 See paragraphs 1 4–20 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction.  
2 Other than sessions of the governing bodies, which are regulated by the policy on management of engagement.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  21 RESOURCES  
7. WHO can accept financial and in -kind contributions from nongovernmental organizations as 
long as such contributions fall within WHO ’s General Programme of Work, do not create conflicts of 
interest, are  managed in accordance with the framework, and comply with other relevant regulati ons, 
rules and policies of WHO.  
8. The acceptance of contributions (whether in cash or in kind) should be made subject to the 
following conditions:  
(a) the acceptance of a contribution does not constitute an endorsement by WHO of the 
nongovernmental organization;  
(b) the acceptance of a contribution does not confer on the contributor any privilege or 
advantage;  
(c) the acceptance of a contribution as such does not offer the contributor any possibility for 
advising, influencing, participating in, or being in command of the management or 
implementation of operational activities;  
(d) WHO keeps its discretionary right to decline a contribution, without any further 
explanation.  
9. WHO can provide resources to a nongovernmental organization for implementation of 
particular work in accordance with the Programme Budget, the Financial Regulations and Financial 
Rules and other applicable rules and policies. The resources concerned can b e either for a project of 
the institution which WHO considers merits support and is consistent with WHO ’s general programme 
of work, or for a project organized or coordinated by WHO. The former constitutes  a grant, the latter a 
service.  
Specific policies a nd operational procedures  
10. Any acceptance of resources from a nongovernmental organization is handled in accordance 
with the provisions of this framework and relevant other WHO rules and guidelines such as the Staff 
Regulations and Staff Rules, the Financial Regulations and Financial Rules and policies governing 
procurement, as well as WHO ’s guidelines for medicine donations and WHO ’s guidelines for health 
care equipment donations;  
11. For reasons of transparency, contributions from nongovernmental o rganizations must be 
publicly acknowledged by WHO in accordance with its  policies and practices.  
12. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: “The World Health 
Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [N ongovernmental organization] 
towards [description of the outcome or activity] ”. 
13. Contributions received from nongovernmental organizations are listed in the financial report 
and audited financial statements of WHO as well as the Programme budget web por tal and the WHO 
register of non -State actors.  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 14. Nongovernmental organizations may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their 
materials used for commercial, promotional, marketing and advertisement purposes.1 However, they 
may make refer ence to the contribution in their annual reports or similar documents. In addition, they 
may mention the contribution on their websites, and in special non -promotional publications, provided 
that the content and context have been agreed with WHO.  
EVIDENCE  
15 Nongovernmental organizations may provide their up -to-date information and knowledge on 
technical issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, subject to the provisions of the 
overarching framework, and this specific policy and operation al procedures, and other applicable 
WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as 
appropriate, wherever possible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available.  
ADVOCACY  
16. WHO collaborates w ith nongovernmental organizations on advocacy for health and increasing 
awareness of health issues; for changing behaviours in the interest of public health; and for fostering 
collaboration and greater coherence between non -State actors where joint action is required.  
17. Nongovernmental organizations are encouraged to disseminate WHO ’s policies, guidelines, 
norms and standards and other tools through their networks.  
18. WHO encourages nongovernmental organizations to implement and advocate for the 
implemen tation of WHO ’s policies, norms and standards. WHO engages in dialogue with 
nongovernmental organizations in order to promote the implementation of WHO ’s policies, norms and 
standards.2 
19. Nongovernmental organizations can only collaborate with WHO in adv ocacy for the 
implementation of WHO policies norms or standards if they commit themselves to implement these 
policies, norms or standards in their entirety. No partial or selective implementation is acceptable.  
TECHNICAL COLLABORAT ION  
20. WHO may engage wi th the nongovernmental organizations for technical collaboration as 
defined in the overarching framework paragraph 20. Technical collaboration with nongovernmental 
organizations is encouraged. This collaboration must be in the interest of WHO, and managed in 
accordance with the overarching framework and this policy to protect WHO, and in particular, its 
normative work, from any undue influence or conflict of interest and to ensure there is no interference 
with WHO ’s advisory function to Member States.  
  
                                                      
1 In accordance with paragraph 4 6 of the overarching framework.  
2 Nongovernmental organizations  working with WHO will be expected to conform to WHO ’s public health policies 
in areas such as food safety, chemical safety, ethical promotion of medicinal drug products, tobacco control, 
noncom municable diseases, as well as health and safety at work.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  23 WHO  POLICY AND OPERATION AL PROCEDURES ON  
ENGAGEMENT WITH PRIV ATE SECTOR ENTITIES  
1. This policy regulates specifically WHO ’s engagement with private sector entities by type of 
interaction.1 The provisions of the overarching framework also apply to all engagem ents with private 
sector entities.  
2. When engaging with private sector entities, it should be borne in mind that WHO ’s activities 
affect the commercial sector in broader ways, through, among others, its public health guidance, its 
recommendations on norma tive standards, or other work that might indirectly or directly influence 
product costs, market demand, or profitability of specific goods and services.  
3. In engaging with private sector entities, WHO will aim to operate on a competitively neutral 
basis.  
PARTICIPATION  
Participation by private sector entities in WHO meetings2 
4. WHO can invite private sector entities to participate in consultations, hearings or other meetings 
in accordance with paragraph 15 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings can be 
electronic or in person.  
5. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the private 
sector entity has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the deliberations of the 
meeting. Su ch participation is for the exchange of information and views, but never for the 
formulation of advice.  
6. The nature of participation of private sector entities depends on the type of meeting concerned. 
The format, modalities, and the participation of pri vate sector entities in consultations, hearings, and 
other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by the WHO governing bodies or by the Secretariat. 
Participation and inputs received from private sector entities shall be made publicly available, 
where ver possible. Private sector entities do not take part in any decision making process of the 
Organization.  
Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by private sector entities  
7. WHO staff members may participate in meetings organized by a priva te sector entity as long as 
the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are preserved and as long as this 
participation furthers WHO ’s objectives as expressed in the General Programme of Work. The private 
sector entity shall not misrepre sent WHO ’s participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement 
of, the meeting, and shall agree not to use WHO ’s participation for commercial and/or promotional 
purposes.  
                                                      
1 See paragraphs 1 4–20 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction.  
2 Other than sessions of the governing bodies, which are regulated by the policy on management of engagement.  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 Specific policies and operational procedures  
8. The participation of WHO staff members in meetings of private sector entities as panellists, 
speakers or in any other capacity shall be managed according to the provisions of the overarching 
framework and this specific policy.  
9. WHO does not cosponsor meetings organized wholly or partl y by private sector entities. It may, 
however, cosponsor a meeting for which the scientific initiators have hired a commercial conference 
organizer to deal with the logistical aspects, provided that the commercial organizer makes no 
contribution to the sci entific content of the meeting.  
10. WHO does not cosponsor meetings organized by other actors where one or more health -related 
private sector entities are also cosponsors. Other instances of cosponsorship of meetings organized by 
other actors where non hea lth-related private sector entities are also cosponsors should be reviewed on 
a case -by-case basis and are subject to the provisions of this framework.  
11. There shall be no commercial exhibitions on WHO premises and at WHO ’s meetings.  
12. WHO does not cos ponsor commercial exhibitions, whether as part of meetings organized by 
private sector entities or as part of meetings organized by other actors.  
RESOURCES  
13. The level of risk associated with the acceptance of resources from private sector entities 
depen ds on the field of activity of the private sector entity, the WHO activity for which the resources 
are used and the modalities of the contributions.  
(a) Financial contributions may be accepted from private sector entities whose business is 
unrelated to tha t of WHO, provided they are not engaged in any activity or have close ties with 
any entity that is incompatible with WHO ’s mandate and work.  
(b) Financial contributions may not be sought or accepted from private sector entities that 
have, themselves or thr ough their affiliated companies, a direct commercial interest in the 
outcome of the project toward which they would be contributing, unless approved in conformity 
with the provisions for clinical trials or product develo pment (see paragraph 36 below).  
(c) The provisions set out in paragraph 13(b) shall be without prejudice to specific 
mechanisms, such as the Pandemic Influenza Preparedness Framework ( “PIP Framework ”), set 
up by the Health Assembly that involve the receipt and pooling of resources.1 
(d) Caut ion should be exercised in accepting financial contributions from private sector 
entities that have even an indirect interest in the outcome of the project (i.e. the activity is 
related to the entities ’ field of interest, without there being a conflict as referred to above). In 
such an event, other commercial enterprises having a similar indirect interest should be invited 
to contribute, and the reason clearly described if this does not prove possible. The larger the 
proportion of the contribution from any one source, the greater the care that should be taken to 
                                                      
1 In accordance with paragraph 1 7 of the overarching framework.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  25 avoid the possibility of a conflict of interest or appearance of an inappropriate association with 
one contributor.  
14. Financial and in -kind contributions from private sector entities to WHO ’s progr ammes are only 
acceptable in the following conditions:  
(a) the contribution is not used for normative work;  
(b) if a contribution is used for activities other than normative work in which the private 
sector entity could have a commercial interest, the public health benefit of the engagement 
needs clearly t o outweigh its potential risks;  
(c) the proportion of funding of any activity coming from the private sector cannot be such 
that the programme ’s continuation would become dependent on this support;  
(d) the acceptance of the contribution does not constitute an endorsement by WHO of the 
private sector entity, or its activities, products or services;  
(e) the contributor may not use the results of WHO ’s work for commercial purposes or use 
the fact of its co ntribution in its promotional material;  
(f) the acceptance of the contribution does not afford the contributor any privilege or 
advantage;  
(g) the acceptance of the contribution does not offer the contributor any possibility for 
advising, influencing, part icipating in, or being in command of the management or 
implementa tion of operational activities;  
(h) WHO keeps its discretionary right to decline a contribution, without any further 
explanation.  
15. Any acceptance of resources from private sector entities is handled in accordance with the 
provisions of this framework and relevant other WHO rules and guidelines such as the Staff 
Regulations and Staff Rules, the Financial Regulations and Financial Rules and policies governing  
procurement, as well as WHO ’s gui delines for medicine donations and WHO ’s guidelines for health 
care equipment donations;  
16 For reasons of transparency, contributions from private sector entities must be publicly 
acknowledged by WHO in accordance with its policies and practices.  
17. Ackn owledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: “The World Health 
Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [Private sector entity] towards 
[description of the outcome or activity] ”. 
18. Contributions received from private sector entities, are listed in the financial report and audited 
financial statements of WHO as well as the Programme budget web portal and the register of 
non-State actors.  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 19. Private sector entities may not use the fact that they have made a cont ribution in their materials 
used for commercial, promotional, marketing and advertisement purposes.1 However, they may make 
reference to the contribution in their annual reports or similar documents. In addition, they may 
mention the contribution on their websites, and in special non -promotional publications, provided that 
the content and con text have been agreed with WHO.  
Donations of medicines and other health technologies2 
20. In determining the acceptability of large -scale donations of medicines and oth er health -related 
products, the following criteria should be met.  
(a) Sound evidence exists of the safety and efficacy of the product in the indication for which 
it is being donated. The product is approved or otherwise authorized by the recipient country for 
use in that indication; it should also preferably appear in the WHO Model List of Essential 
Medicines for that indication.  
(b) Objective and justifiable criteria for the selection of recipient countries, communities or 
patients have been determined. In  emergency situations, flexibilities may be required.  
(c) A supply system is in place and consideration is given to means of preventing waste, theft 
and misuse (including leakage back into the market).  
(d) A training and supervision programme is in place f or all personnel involved in the 
efficient administration of supply, storage and distribution at every point from the donor to the 
end-user.  
(e) A donation of medicines and other health -related products is not of a promotional nature, 
either with regard to  the company itself or insofar as it creates a demand for the products that is 
not sustainable once the donation has ended.  
(f) WHO does not accept products at the end of their shelf life.  
(g) A phase -out plan for the donation has been agreed upon with rec ipient countries.  
(h) A system for monitoring adverse reactions to the product has been set up with the 
participation of the donating company.  
21. In consultation with the department responsible for financial matters in WHO, the value of 
donations of medicines and other health -related products is determined and is formally recorded in the 
audited statements and the WHO register of non -State actors.  
                                                      
1 In accordance with paragraph 4 6 of the overarching framework.  
2 Such donations shall be in line with interagency guidelines: World Health Organization, Ecumenical Pharmaceutical 
Network, Inte rnational Pharmaceutical Federation, International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, 
International Health Partners, The Partnership for Quality Medical Donations, et al. Guidelines for medicine donations – 
revised 2010. Geneva: World Heal th Organization; 2011.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  27 Financial contributions for clinical trials  
22. Except as provided in paragraph 36 below on product devel opment, financial contributions from 
a private sector entity for a clinical trial arranged by WHO on that company ’s proprietary product are 
considered on a case -by-case basis. In this connection, it should be ensured that:  
(a) the research or development a ctivity is of public health importance;  
(b) the research is conducted at WHO ’s request and potential conflicts of interest are managed ; 
(c) WHO only accepts such financial contributions, if the research would not take place 
without WHO ’s involvement or if WHO ’s involvement is necessary in order to ensure that the 
research is undertaken in conformity with internationally accepted technical and ethical 
standards and guidelines.  
23 If the above -mentioned requirements are met, a financial contribution may be ac cepted from a 
company having a direct commercial interest in the trial in question, provided that appropriate 
mechanisms are put in place to ensure that WHO controls the conduct and the dissemination of the 
outcomes of the trials, including the content of any resulting publication, and that the trial results are 
free from any inappropriate influence or perceived influence from the company concerned.  
Contributions for WHO meetings  
24. For meetings convened by WHO, a contribution from a private sector entity may not be 
accepted if it is designated to support the participation of specific invitees (including such invitees ’ 
travel and accommodation), regardless of whether such contribution would be provided directly to the 
participants or channelled through WHO.  
25. Contributions may be accepted to support the overall costs of a meeting.  
26. WHO receptions and similar functions shall not be paid for by private sector entities.  
Contributions for WHO staff participating in external meetings  
27. An external meeting is one convened by a party other than WHO. Support from private sector 
entities for travel of WHO staff members to attend external meetings or conferences may fall into two 
categories:  
(a) meetings held by the private sector entity paying for travel: finan cing for travel may be 
accepted in accordance with WHO ’s rules if the private sector entity is also supporting the 
travel and ancillary expenses of other participants in the meeting, and the risk of a conflict of 
interest has been assessed and managed;  
(b) meetings held by a third party (i.e. a party other than the private sector entity proposing to 
pay for the travel): financing for travel may not be accepted from a private sector entity.  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 Contributions for publications  
28. Financial contributions may be ac cepted from private sector entities for meeting the printing 
costs of WHO publications, as long as no conflict of interest arises. In no event may commercial 
advertisements be placed in  WHO publications;  
Cost recovery  
29. In cases where a WHO evaluation sc heme is in place (i.e. to evaluate certain products, processes 
or services against official WHO guidelines), the Organization may charge private sector entities for 
such services on the basis of cost recovery. The purpose of WHO ’s evaluation schemes is alw ays to 
provide advice to governments and/or international organizations for procurement. Evaluation does 
not constitute endorsement by WHO of the product(s), process or service in question.  
EVIDENCE  
30. Private sector entities may provide their up -to-date information and knowledge on technical 
issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, subject to the provisions of the 
overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applicable 
WHO rules, policies and pr ocedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as 
appropriate, wherever possible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available.  
ADVOCACY  
31. WHO encourages private sector entities to implement and advocate for the impleme ntation of 
WHO ’s policies, norms and standards. WHO engages in dialogue with private sector entities in order 
to promote the implementation of WHO ’s policies, norms and standards.1 
32. Private sector entities can only collaborate with WHO in advocacy for the implementation of 
WHO policies norms or standards if they commit themselves to implement these policies, norms or 
standards in their entirety. No partial or selective implementatio n is acceptable.  
33. International business associations are encouraged to work with their members in order to 
improve their public health impact and the implementation of WHO policies, norms and standards.  
TECHNICAL COLLABORAT ION  
34. WHO may engage with the private sector for technical collaboration as defined in the 
overarch ing framework paragraph 20. Technical collaboration with private sector entities is 
encouraged. This collaboration must be in the interest of WHO, and managed in accordance with the 
overarching framework and this policy to protect WHO, and in particular, i ts normative work, from 
any undue influence or conflict of interest and to ensure there is no interference with WHO ’s advisory 
function to Member States.  
                                                      
1 Private sector entities working with WHO will be expected to conform to WHO ’s public health policies in areas 
such as food safety, chemical safety, ethical promotion of medicinal drug products, tobacco control, noncommunicable 
diseases, as well as health and safety at work.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  29 Specific policies and operational procedures  
35. If WHO has drawn up official specifications for a pr oduct, it may provide technical advice to 
manufacturers for development of their product in accordance with these specifications, provided that 
all private sector entities known to have an interest in such a product are given the opportunity to 
collaborate  with WHO in the same way.  
36. WHO may collaborate with private sector entities in the research and development of health 
related technologies that contribute to increasing access to quality, safe, efficacious and affordable 
medical products. Collaborative  research and development should, as a general rule, be undertaken 
only if WHO and the private sector entity have concluded an agreement which ensures that the final 
product will ultimately be widely available, including to the public sector of developing countries at a 
preferential price. If such an agreement is concluded, financing may be accepted from the private 
sector entity for a trial arranged by WHO on the product in question, on the basis that contractual 
commitments obtained from the private secto r entity outweigh any potential conflict of interest in 
accepting such financing.  
  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 WHO POLICY AND OPERA TIONAL PROCEDURES ON  ENGAGEMENT   
WITH PHILANTHROPIC F OUNDATIONS  
1. This policy regulates specifically WHO ’s engagement with philanthropic foundations by  type of 
interaction.1 The provisions of the overarching framework also apply to all engagements with 
philanthropic foundations.  
PARTICIPATION  
Participation by philanthropic foundations in WHO meetings2 
2. WHO can invite philanthropic foundations to participate in consultations, hearings or other 
meetings in accordance with paragraph 15 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings 
can be electronic or in person.  
3. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in  which the 
philanthropic foundation has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the 
deliberations of the meeting. Such participation is for the exchange of information and views, but 
never for the formulation of advice.  
4. The natur e of participation of philanthropic foundations depends on the type of meeting 
concerned. The format, modalities, and the participation of philanthropic foundations in consultations, 
hearings, and other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by the WH O governing bodies or by 
the Secretariat. Participation and inputs received from philanthropic foundations shall be made 
publicly available, wherever possible. Philanthropic foundations do not take part in any decision 
making process of the Organization.  
Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings organized by philanthropic foundations  
5. WHO can organize joint meetings, or cosponsor meetings organized by philanthropic 
foundations, as long as the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are  preserved, 
and as long as this participation furthers WHO ’s objectives as expressed in the General Programme of 
Work. WHO staff members may participate in meetings organized by philanthropic foundations in 
accordance with the Organization ’s internal rules . The philanthropic foundations shall not 
misrepresent WHO ’s participation as official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and 
shall agree not to use WHO ’s participation for promotional purposes.  
Specific policies and operational procedures  
6. The participation of WHO in meetings organized by philanthropic foundations as co -organizers, 
cosponsors, panellists or speakers shall be managed according to the provisions of the framework for 
engagement with non -State actors.  
                                                      
1 See paragraphs 1 4–20 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction.  
2 Other than sessions of the governing bodies, which are regulated by the policy on management of engagement.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  31 RESOURCES  
7. WHO can accep t financial and in -kind contributions from philanthropic foundations as long as 
such contributions fall within WHO ’s General Programme of Work, do not create conflicts of interest, 
are managed in accordance with the framework, and comply with other relevan t regulati ons, rules and 
policies of WHO.  
8. As for all contributors, philanthropic foundations shall align their contributions to the priorities 
set by the Health Assembly in the approved Programme budget.  
9. Philanthropic foundations are invited to parti cipate in the financing dialogue, which is designed 
to improve the alignment, predictability, flexibility and transparency of WHO ’s funding and to reduce 
budgetary vulnerability.  
10. WHO ’s programmes and offices should strive to ensure that they do not dep end on one single 
source of funding.  
11. The acceptance of contributions (whether in cash or in kind) should be made subject to the 
following conditions:  
(a) the acceptance of a contribution does not constitute an endorsement by WHO of the 
philanthropic fo undation;  
(b) the acceptance of a contribution does not confer on the contributor any privilege or 
advantage;  
(c) the acceptance of a contribution as such does not offer the contributor any possibility for 
advising, influencing, participating in, or being in command of the management or 
implementation of operational activities;  
(d) WHO keeps its discretionary right to decline a contribution, without any further 
explanation.  
Specific policies and operational procedures  
12. Any acceptance of resources from a philanthropic foundation is handled in accordance with the 
provisions of this framework and relevant other WHO rules and guidelines such as the Staff 
Regulations and Staff Rules, the Financial Regulations and Financial Rules and policies governing 
procurem ent, as well as WHO ’s guidelines for medicine donations and WHO ’s guidelines for health 
care equipment donations.  
13. For reasons of transparency, contributions from philanthropic foundations must be publicly 
acknowledged by WHO in accordance with its  policies and practices.  
14. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: “The World Health 
Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [Philanthropic foundation] towards 
[description of the outcome or activity] ”. WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 15. Contributions received from philanthropic foundations are listed in the financial report and 
audited financial statements of WHO as well as the Programme budget web portal and the WHO 
register of non -State actors.  
16. Philanthropic foundations may not u se the fact that they have made a contribution in their 
materials used for commercial, promotional, marketing and advertisement purposes.1 However, they 
may make reference to the contribution in their annual reports or similar documents. In addition, they 
may mention the contribution on their websites, and in special non -promotional publications, provided 
that the content and context have been agreed with WHO.  
EVIDENCE  
17. Philanthropic foundations may provide their up -to-date information and knowledge on t echnical 
issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, subject to the provisions of the 
overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applicable 
WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution sh ould be made publicly available, as 
appropriate, wherever possible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available.  
ADVOCACY  
18. WHO collaborates with philanthropic foundations on advocacy for health and increasing 
awareness of health issues; for changing behaviours in the interest of public health; and for fostering 
collaboration and greater coherence between non -State actors where joint action is required. 
Philanthropic foundations are encouraged to disseminate WHO ’s policies, guideli nes, norms and 
standards and other tools through their networks so as to extend WHO ’s own reach.  
19. WHO encourages philanthropic foundations to implement and advocate for the implementation 
of WHO ’s policies, norms and standards. WHO engages in dialogue with Philanthropic foundations in 
order to promote the implementation of WHO ’s policies, norms and standards.2 
20. Philanthropic foundations can only collaborate with WHO in advocacy for the implementation 
of WHO policies norms or standards if they commit themselves to implement these policies, norms or 
standards in their entirety. No partial or selectiv e implementation is acceptable.  
TECHNICAL COLLABORATION  
21. WHO may engage with the philanthropic foundations for technical collaboration as defined in 
the overarching framework paragraph 20. Technical collaboration with philanthropic foundations is 
encouraged. This collaboration must be in the interest of WHO, and managed in accordance with the 
overarching framework and this policy to protect WHO, and in par ticular, its normative work, from 
any undue influence or conflict of interest and to ensure there is no interference with WHO ’s advisory 
function to Member States).   
                                                      
1 In accordance  with paragraph 4 6 of the overarching framework.  
2 Philanthropic foundations working with WHO will be expected to conform to WHO ’s public health policies in areas 
such as food safety, chemical safety, ethical promotion of medicinal drug products, tobacco control, noncommunicable 
diseases, as well as health and safety at work.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  33 WHO POLICY AND OPERA TIONAL PROCEDURES ON  ENGAGEMENT   
WITH ACADEMIC INSTIT UTIONS  
1. This po licy regulates specifically WHO ’s engagement with academic institutions by type of 
interaction.1 The provisions of the overarching framework also apply to all engagements with 
academic institutions.  
2. The engagement with academic institutions at the insti tutional level has to be distinguished from 
the collaboration with individual experts working for academic institutions.  
PARTICIPATION  
Participation by academic institutions in WHO meetings  
3. WHO can invite academic institutions to participate in consulta tions, hearings or other meetings 
in accordance with paragraph 15 of the overarching framework. Consultations and hearings can be 
electronic or in person.  
4. Participation in other meetings is on the basis of discussion of an item in which the academic 
institution has a particular interest and where its participation adds value to the deliberations of the 
meeting. Such participation is for the exchange of information and views, but never for the 
formulation of advice.  
5. The nature of participation of acade mic institution depends on the type of meeting concerned. 
The format, modalities, and the participation of academic institution in consultations, hearings, and 
other meetings is decided on a case -by-case basis by the WHO governing bodies or by the Secretar iat. 
Participation and inputs received from academic institutions shall be made publicly available, 
wherever possible. Academic institutions do not take part in any decision -making process of the 
Organization.  
Involvement of the Secretariat in meetings org anized by academic institutions  
6. WHO can organize joint meetings, or cosponsor meetings organized by academic institutions, as 
long as the integrity, independence and reputation of the Organization are preserved, and as long as 
this participation further s WHO ’s objectives as expressed in the General Programme of Work. WHO 
staff members may participate in meetings organized by academic institutions in accordance with the 
Organization ’s internal rules. The academic institution shall not misrepresent WHO ’s participation as 
official WHO support for, or endorsement of, the meeting, and shall agree not to use WHO ’s 
participation for promotional purposes.  
Specific policies and operational procedures  
7. The participation of WHO in meetings organized by academic institutions as co -organizers, 
cosponsors, panellists or speakers shall be managed according to th e provisions of this framework.  
                                                      
1 See paragraphs 1 4–20 of the overarching framework for the five types of interaction.  WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 RESOURCES  
8. WHO can accept financial and in -kind contributions from academic institutions as long as such 
contributions fall within WHO ’s General Programme of Work, do not create conflicts of interest, are 
managed in accordance with the framework, and comply with other relevant regulati ons, rules and 
policies of WHO.  
9. WHO can provide resources to an academic institution for im plementation of particular work 
(such as research, a clinical trial, laboratory work and preparation of a document), in accordance with 
the Financial Regulations and Financial Rules and other applicable rules and policies. This can be 
either for a project of the institution which WHO considers merits support, based on a clear public 
health interest, and is consistent with WHO ’s General Programme of Work, or for a project organized 
or coordinated by WHO. The former constitutes  a grant, the latter a service.  
Specific policies and operational procedures  
10. Any acceptance of resources from an academic institution is handled in accordance with the 
provisions of this framework and relevant other WHO rules and guidelines such as the Staff 
Regulations and Staff Rul es, the Financial Regulations and Financial Rules and policies governing 
procurement, as well as WHO ’s guidelines for medicine donations and WHO ’s guidelines for health 
care equipment donations;  
11. For reasons of transparency, contributions from academic institutions must be publicly 
acknowledged by WHO in accordance with its  policies and practices.  
12. Acknowledgements shall usually be worded along the following lines: “The World Health 
Organization gratefully acknowledges the financial contribution of [a cademic institution] towards 
[description of the outcome or activity] ”. 
13. Contributions received from academic institutions are listed in the financial report and audited 
financial statements of WHO as well as the Programme budget web portal and the WHO register of 
non-State actors.  
14. Academic institutions may not use the fact that they have made a contribution in their materials 
used for commercial, promotional, marketing and advertisement purposes.1 However, they may make 
reference to the contribution  in their annual reports or similar documents. In addition, they may 
mention the contribution on their websites, and in special non -promotional publications, provided that 
the content and context have been agreed with WHO.  
EVIDENCE  
15. Academic institution s may provide their up -to-date information and knowledge on technical 
issues, and share their experience with WHO, as appropriate, subject to the provisions of the 
overarching framework, and this specific policy and operational procedures, and other applic able 
WHO rules, policies and procedures. Such contribution should be made publicly available, as 
appropriate, wherever possible. Scientific evidence generated should be made publicly available.  
                                                      
1 In accordance with paragraph 4 6 of the overarching framework.    WHA69.10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  35 16. Intellectual property arising from collaborations with aca demic institutions is regulated by the 
agreement with the academic institution. This should be addressed in consultation with the Office of 
the Legal Counsel.  
ADVOCACY  
17. WHO collaborates with academic institutions on advocacy for health and increasing aw areness 
of health issues; for changing behaviours in the interest of public health; and for fostering 
collaboration and greater coherence between non -State actors where joint action is required. Academic 
institutions are encouraged to disseminate WHO ’s pol icies, guidelines, norms and standards and other 
tools through their networks s o as to extend WHO ’s own reach.  
18.  WHO encourages academic institutions to implement and advocate for the implementation of 
WHO ’s policies, norms and standards. WHO engages in  dialogue with academic institutions in order 
to promote the implementation of WHO ’s policies, norms and standards.1 
19. Academic institutions can only collaborate with WHO in advocacy for the implementation of 
WHO policies norms or standards if they commi t themselves to implement these policies, norms or 
standards in their entirety. No partial or selectiv e implementation is acceptable.  
TECHNICAL COLLABORATION  
20. WHO may engage with academic institutions for technical collaboration as defined in the 
overar ching framework paragraph 20. Technical collaboration with academic institutions is 
encouraged. This collaboration must be in the interest of WHO, and managed in accordance with the 
overarching framework and this policy to protect WHO, and in particular, i ts normative work, from 
any undue influence or conflict of interest and to ensure there is no interference with WHO ’s advisory 
function to Member States.  
21. Scientific collaborations are regulated by the Regulations for Study and Scientific Groups, 
Collab orating Institutions and other Mechanisms of Collaboration.2 
22. Academic institutions or parts thereof can be designated as WHO collaborating centres in 
accordance with the Regulations mentioned above. In this context, before granting the status of WHO 
collaborating centre a due diligence and risk assessment in accordance with this framework is 
conducted. The collaboration with these collaborating centres is regulated by the aforementioned 
regulations and reflected in the register of non -State actors.  
Eigh th plenary meeting, 28 May 2016  
A69/VR/8  
=     =     =  
                                                      
1 Academic institutions working with WHO will be expected to conform to WHO ’s public health policies in areas 
such as food safety, chemical safety, ethical promotion of medicinal drug products, tobacco control, noncommunicable 
diseases, as well as health and safety at work.  
2 Basic docum ents, 48th ed. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2014: pp.131 –138. 