to follow the practice  of these criteria  and to report to the Executive  Board 
time to time as appropriate. 世界術生大會决議  ^JUJI；^丨一」> 
RESOLUTION  OF THE WORLD  HEALTH  ASSEMBLY 
RÉSOLUTION  DE L'AS S E M В L ÉB^^BR)  I AL E DE LA SANTÉ 
РЕЗОЛЮЦИЯ  ВСЕМИРНОЙ  A( 
RESOLUCION  DE LA A S A M ；'. ЗДРАВООХРАНЕНИЯ 
M U NE»' AL DE LA SALUD 
to WHA41.17 
13 May 1988 
ZOb^S i AI íioi 
FORTY-FIRST  WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY 
Agenda item 23 
ETHICAL CRITERIA  FOR MEDICINAL  DRUG PROMOTION 
The Forty-first  World Health Assembly, 
Recalling  resolutions  WHA21.41  and WHA39.27; 
Having considered  the report of the Executive  Board concerning  the ethical  criteria 
for medicinal  drug promotion  based on a draft prepared  by an international  group of 
experts； 
Convinced  that observance  of ethical criteria  for medicinal  drug promotion  by all 
parties concerned  will contribute  to a more rational  use of drugs； 
1. THANKS  the international  group of experts for its work; 
2. ENDORSES  the ethical criteria  for medicinal  drug promotion  that are annexed to this 
resolution,  on the understanding  that they constitute  general  principles  that could be 
adapted by governments  to countries'  circumstances  as appropriate  to their political, 
economic,  cultural,  social, educational,  scientific  and technical  situation,  their 
national  laws and regulations,  disease profile,  therapeutic  traditions,  and the level of 
development  of their health system, and that they do not constitute  legal obligations； 
3. URGES Member States: 
(1) to take account of these ethical criteria  in developing  their own appropriate 
measures  to ensure that medicinal  drug promotion  supports  the aim of improving 
health care through the rational  use of drugs； 
(2) to monitor and enforce,  where appropriate,  the implementation  of the measures 
they have developed; 
4. APPEALS  to pharmaceutical  manufacturers  and distributors,  the promotion  industry, 
health personnel  involved  in the prescription,  dispensing,  supply and distribution  of 
drugs, universities  and other teaching  institutions,  professional  associations,  patient 
and consumer  groups,  the professional  and general media (including  publishers  and editors 
of medical journals  and related publications),  and the public: 
(1) to use these criteria  as appropriate  to their spheres  of competence,  activity 
and responsibility; 
(2) to adopt measures  based on these criteria  as appropriate,  and monitor and 
enforce their standards； 
5. REQUESTS  the Director-General: 
(1) to ensure the wide dissemination  of these criteria  in all official  languages； 
om (2) 
fr 
Fifteenth  plenary meeting,  13 May 1988 
A41/VR/15 
ANNEX 
ETHICAL CRITERIA  FOR MEDICINAL  DRUG PROMOTION 
CONTENTS 
Paragraph 
Introduction  1 
Objective  2 
Ethical criteria  3 
Applicability  and implementation  of criteria  4  - 5 
Promotion  6  - 9 
Advertising  10  - 16 
Medical representatives  17  - 19 
Free samples  of prescription  drugs for promotional  purposes  20 
Free samples  of non-prescription  drugs to the general  public for promotional 
purposes  21 
Symposia  and other scientific  meetings  .  22 - 24 
Post-marketing  scientific  studies,  surveillance  and dissemination  of 
information  25  - 27 
Packaging  and labelling  28 
Information  for patients:  package  inserts,  leaflets  and booklets  29  - 30 
Promotion  of exported  drugs . . . . .  . . . 31 
Appendix  • Sample drug information  sheet 
Introduction 1. Following  the WHO Conference  of Experts on the Rational  Use of Drugs held in Nairobi 
in November  1985, WHO prepared  a revised  drug strategy  which was endorsed  by the 
Thirty-ninth  World Health Assembly  in May 1986 in resolution  WHA39.27.  This strategy 
includes,  among other components,  the establishment  of ethical  criteria  for drug 
promotion  based on the updating  and extension  of the ethical  and scientific  criteria 
established  in 1968 by the Twenty-first  World Health Assembly  in resolution  WHA21.41. 
The criteria  that follow have been prepared  in compliance  with the above on the basis of 
a draft elaborated  by an international  group of experts. 
Objective 
2. The main objective  of ethical  criteria  for medicinal  drug promotion  is to support 
and encourage  the improvement  of health care through  the rational  use of medicinal  drugs. 
Ethical criteria 
3. The interpretation  of what is ethical  varies in different  parts of the world and in 
different  societies.  The issue in all societies  is what is proper behaviour.  Ethical 
criteria  for drug promotion  should lay the foundation  for proper behaviour  concerning  the 
Annex 
promotion  of medicinal  drugs, consistent  with the search for truthfulness  and 
righteousness.  The criteria  should thus assist in judging  if promotional  practices 
related to medicinal  drugs are in keeping  with acceptable  ethical  standards. 
Applicability  and implementation  of criteria 
4. These  criteria  constitute  general  principles  for ethical  standards  which could be 
adapted by governments  to national  circumstances  as appropriate  to their political, 
economic,  cultural,  social,  educational,  scientific  and technical  situation,  laws and 
regulations,  disease  profile,  therapeutic  traditions  and the level of development  of 
their health system.  They apply to prescription  and non-prescription  medicinal  drugs 
("over-the-counter  drugs").  They also apply generally  to traditional  medicines  as 
appropriate,  and to any other product  promoted  as a medicine.  The criteria  could be used 
by people in all walks of life； by governments；  the pharmaceutical  industry 
(manufacturers  and distributors)；  the promotion  industry  (advertising  agencies,  market 
research  organizations  and the like)；  health personnel  involved  in the prescription, 
dispensing,  supply and distribution  of drugs；  universities  and other teaching 
institutions；  professional  associations;  patients‘  and consumer  groups；  and the 
professional  and general  media (including  publishers  and editors  of medical  journals  and 
related publications).  All these are encouraged  to use the criteria  as appropriate  to 
their spheres  of competence,  activity  and responsibility.  They are also encouraged  to 
take the criteria  into account  in developing  their own sets of ethical  standards  in their 
own field relating  to medicinal  drug promotion. 
5. The criteria  do not constitute  legal obligations；  governments  may adopt legislation 
or other measures  based on them as they deem fit. Similarly,  other groups may adopt 
self-regulatory  measures  based on them. All these bodies should monitor  and enforce 
their standards. 
Promotion 
6. In this context,  "promotion"  refers to all informational  and persuasive  activities 
by manufacturers  and distributors,  the effect of which is to induce the prescription, 
supply, purchase  and/or use of medicinal  drugs. 
7. Active  promotion  within a country  should take place only with respect  to drugs 
legally available  in the country.  Promotion  should be in keeping  with national  health 
policies  and in compliance  with national  regulations,  as well as with voluntary  standards 
where they exist. All promotion-making  claims concerning  medicinal  drugs should be 
reliable,  accurate,  truthful,  informative,  balanced,  up-to-date,  capable  of 
substantiation  and in good taste. They should not contain  misleading  or unverifiable 
statements  or omissions  likely to induce medically  unjustifiable  drug use or to give rise 
to undue risks. The word "safe" should only be used if properly  qualified.  Comparison 
of products  should be factual,  fair and capable  of substantiation.  Promotional  material 
should not be designed  so as to disguise  its real nature. 
8. Scientific  data in the public domain should be made available  to prescribers  and any 
other person entitled  to receive  it, on request,  as appropriate  to their requirements. 
Promotion  in the form of financial  or material  benefits  should not be offered  to or 
sought by health care practitioners  to influence  them in the prescription  of drugs. 
9. Scientific  and educational  activities  should not be deliberately  used for 
promotional  purposes. 
Annex 
Advertising 
(a) Advertisements  in all forms to physicians  and health-related  professionals 
10. The wording  and illustrations  in advertisements  to physicians  and related  health 
professionals  should be fully consistent  with the approved  scientific  data sheet for the 
drug concerned  or other source of information  with similar  content.  The text should be 
fully legible. 
11. Some countries  require  that advertisements  should contain  full product  information, 
as defined  by the approved  scientific  data sheet or similar  document,  for a given period 
from the date of first promotion  or for the full product  life. Advertisements  that make 
a promotional  claim should at least contain  summary  scientific  information. 
12. The following  list, based on the sample drug information  sheet contained  in the 
second report of the WHO Expert Committee  on the Use of Essential  Drugs and appended 
for ease of reference,  can serve as an illustration  of the type of information  that such 
advertisements  should usually  contain,  among others: 
-the name(s)  of the active ingredient(s)  using either international  nonproprietary 
names (INN) or the approved  generic  name of the drug; 
-the brand name； 
-content  of active ingredient(s)  per dosage form or regimen; 
-name of other ingredients  known to cause problems； 
-approved  therapeutic  uses； 
-dosage form or regimen; 
-side-effects  and major adverse  drug reactions； 
-precautions,  contra-indications  and warnings； 
-major interactions； 
-name and address  of manufacturer  or distributor; 
-reference  to scientific  literature  as appropriate. 
13. Where advertisements  are permitted  without  claims (reminder  advertisements),  they 
ought to include  at least the brand name, the international  nonproprietary  name or 
approved  generic  name, the name of each active ingredient,  and the name and address  of 
the manufacturer  or distributor  for the purpose  of receiving  further  information. 
(b) Advertisements  in all forms to the general  public 
14. Advertisements  to the general  public should help people to make rational  decisions 
on the use of drugs determined  to be legally  available  without  a prescription.  While 
they should take account  of people's  legitimate  desire for information  regarding  their 
health, they should not take undue advantage  of people's  concern  for their health.  They 
1 WHO Technical  Report Series,  No. 722, 1985, p. 43. 
Annex 
should not generally  be permitted  for prescription  drugs or to promote  drugs for certain 
serious conditions  that can be treated  only by qualified  health practitioners,  for which 
certain countries  have established  lists. To fight drug addiction  and dependency, 
scheduled  narcotic  and psychotropic  drugs should not be advertised  to the general 
public. While health education  aimed at children  is highly desirable,  drug 
advertisements  should not be directed  at children.  Advertisements  may claim that a drug 
can cure, prevent,  or relieve  an ailment  only if this can be substantiated.  They should 
also indicate,  where applicable,  appropriate  limitations  to the use of the drug. 
15. When lay language  is used, the information  should be consistent  with the approved 
scientific  data sheet or other legally  determined  scientific  basis for approval. 
Language  which brings about fear or distress  should not be used. 
16. The following  list serves as an illustration  of the type of information 
advertisements  to the general  public should contain,  taking into account  the media 
employed: 
-the name(s)  of the active ingredientes)  using either international  nonproprietary 
names (INN) or the approved  generic  name of the drug； 
-the brand name； 
-major indication(s)  for use； 
-major precautions,  contra-indications  and warnings； 
-name and address  of manufacturer  or distributor. 
Information  on price to the consumer  should be accurately  and honestly  portrayed. 
Medical representatives 
17. Medical  representatives  should have an appropriate  educational  background.  They 
should be adequately  trained.  They should possess  sufficient  medical  and technical 
knowledge  and integrity  to present  information  on products  and carry out other 
promotional  activities  in an accurate  and responsible  manner.  Employers  are responsible 
for the basic and continuing  training  of their representatives.  Such training  should 
include instruction  regarding  appropriate  ethical  conduct  taking into consideration  the 
WHO criteria.  In this context,  exposure  of medical  representatives  and trainees  to 
feedback  from the medical  and allied professions  and from independent  members  of the 
public, particularly  regarding  risks, can be salutary. 
18. Medical  representatives  should make available  to prescribers  and dispensers  complete 
and unbiased  information  for each product  discussed,  such as an approved  scientific  data 
sheet or other source of information  with similar  content. 
19. Employers  should be responsible  for the statements  and activities  of their medical 
representatives.  Medical  representatives  should not offer inducements  to prescribers  and 
dispensers.  Prescribers  and dispensers  should not solicit  such inducements.  In order to 
avoid over-promotion,  the main part of the remuneration  of medical  representatives  should 
not be directly  related  to the volume of sales they generate. 
Free samples  of prescription  drugs for promotional  purposes 
20. Free samples  of legally  available  prescription  drugs may be provided  in modest 
quantities  to prescribers,  generally  on request. 
Annex 
Free samples  of non-prescription  drugs to the general  public for promotional  purposes 
21. Countries  vary in their practices  regarding  the provision  of free samples  of 
non-prescription  drugs to the general  public,  some countries  permitting  it, some not. 
Also, a distinction  has to be made between  provision  of free drugs by health agencies  for 
the care of certain  groups and the provision  of free samples  to the general  public for 
promotional  purposes.  The provision  of free samples  of non-prescription  drugs to the 
general public for promotional  purposes  is difficult  to justify  from a health 
perspective.  If this practice  is legally  permitted  in any country,  it should be handled 
with great restraint. 
Symposia  and other scientific  meetings 
22. Symposia  are useful for disseminating  information.  The objective  scientific  content 
of such meetings  should be paramount,  and presentations  by independent  scientists  and 
health professionals  are helpful  to this end. Their educational  value may be enhanced  if 
they are organized  by scientific  or professional  bodies. 
23. The fact of sponsorship  by a pharmaceutical  manufacturer  or distributor  should be 
clearly stated in advance,  at the meeting  and in any proceedings.  The latter should 
accurately  reflect  the presentations  and discussions.  Entertainment  or other 
hospitality,  arid any gifts offered  to members  of the medical  and allied professions, 
should be secondary  to the main purpose  of the meeting  and should be kept to a modest 
level. 
24. Any support  to individual  health practitioners  to participate  in any domestic  or 
international  symposia  should not be conditional  upon any obligation  to promote  any 
medicinal  product. 
Post-marketing  scientific  studies.  surveillance  and dissemination  of information 
25. Post-marketing  clinical  trials for approved  medicinal  drugs are important  to ensure 
their rational  use. It is recommended  that appropriate  national  health authorities  be 
made aware of any such studies  and that relevant  scientific  and ethical  committees 
confirm the validity  of the research.  Intercountry  and regional  cooperation  in such 
studies may be useful.  Substantiated  information  on such studies  should be reported  to 
the appropriate  national  health authorities  and disseminated  as soon as possible. 
26. Post-marketing  scientific  studies  and surveillance  should not be misused  as a 
disguised  form of promotion. 
27. Substantiated  information  on hazards  associated  with medicinal  drugs should be 
reported  to the appropriate  national  health authority  as a priority,  and should be 
disseminated  internationally  as soon as possible. 
Packaging  and labelling 
28. Appropriate  information  being important  to ensure the rational  use of drugs, all 
packaging  and labelling  material  should provide  information  consistent  with that approved 
by the country's  drug regulatory  authority.  Where one does not exist or is rudimentary, 
such material  should provide  information  consistent  with that approved  by the drug 
regulatory  authority  of the country  from which the drug is imported  or other reliable 
sources of information  with similar  content.  Any wording  and illustration  on the package 
and label should conform  to the principles  of ethical  criteria  enunciated  in this 
document• 
Annex 
Information  for patients  : package  inserts.  leaflets  and booklets 
29. Adequate  information  on the use of medicinal  drugs should be made available  to 
patients.  Such information  should be provided  by physicians  or pharmacists  whenever 
possible.  When package  inserts  or leaflets  are required  by governments,  manufacturers  or 
distributors  should ensure that they reflect  only the information  that has been approved 
by the country's  drug regulatory  authority.  If package  inserts  or leaflets  are used for 
promotional  purposes,  they should comply with the ethical  criteria  enunciated  in this 
document.  The wording  of the package  inserts  or leaflets,  if prepared  specifically  for 
patients,  should be in lay language  on condition  that the medical  and scientific  content 
is properly  reflected. 
30. In addition  to approved  package  inserts  and leaflets  wherever  available,  the 
preparation  and distribution  of booklets  and other informational  material  for patients 
and consumers  should be encouraged  as appropriate.  Such material  should also comply with 
the ethical  criteria  enunciated  in this document. 
Promotion  of exported  drugs 
31. Ethical  criteria  for the promotion  of exported  drugs should be identical  with those 
relating  to drugs for domestic  use. It is desirable  that exporting  and importing 
countries  that have not already  done so should use the WHO Certification  Scheme on the 
Quality of Pharmaceutical  Products  Moving in International  Commerce. 
Annex 
Appendix 
SAMPLE DRUG INFORMATION  SHEET1 
Drug information  sheets 
Various types of information  are needed by prescribers  and consumers  to ensure the 
safe and effective  use of drugs. The following  list is a sample that should be adjusted 
to meet the needs and abilities  of the prescriber. 
(1) 
(2〉 
mechanism International  Nonproprietary  Name (INN) of 
Pharmacological  data: a brief description 
of action. each active substance. 
of pharmacological  effects  and 
(3) Clinical  information: 
whenever  appropriate,  simple diagnostic  criteria  should be 
� (a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) Indications  : 
provided. 
Dosage regimen  and relevant  pharmacokinetic  data: 
-average  and range for adults and children; 
-dosing interval； 
-average  duration  of treatment； 
-special  situations,  e.g., renal, hepatic,  cardiac,  or nutritional 
insufficiencies  that require  either increased  or reduced  dosage. 
Contra-indications. 
Precautions  and warnings  (reference  to pregnancy,  lactation,  etc.). 
Adverse effects  (quantify  by category,  if possible). 
Drug interactions  (include  only if clinically  relevant; 
self-medication  should be included). drugs used for 
(g) Overdosage  : 
-brief clinical  description  of symptoms； 
-non-drug  treatment  and supportive  therapy; 
-specific  antidotes. 
Pharmaceutical  information: 
Dosage forms. 
Strength  of dosage form. 
Excipients. 
Storage conditions  and shelf-life  (expiry  date). 
Pack sizes. 
Description  of the product  and package. 
Legal category  (narcotic  or other controlled  drug, prescription  or 
non-prescription). 
(h) Name arid address of manufacturer(s)  and importer(s) 
1 Reproduced  from The use of essential  drugs : second report of the WHO Expert 
Committee  on the Use of Essential  Drugs (WHO Technical  Report Series,  No. 722, 1985, 
p. 43). 
