WHA11.35 Plan  for an Intensified  Research  Programme 
The Eleventh  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  studied  the proposal  submitted  by the delegation  of the United  States  of America  1 for the 
development  of a plan  for an intensified  research  programme,  and  its offer  of additional  funds  for this 
purpose; 
Noting  that  WHO,  under  its Constitution,  is required  to promote  and  conduct  research  in the field 
of health  ; 
Realizing  that  the Organization  is already  playing  an important  role  in stimulating  and  co-ordinating 
research  in medical  and  scientific  fields  ; 
Considering  that  further  knowledge  is needed  on the etiology,  treatment  and  prevention  of diseases 
common  to mankind,  including  chronic  diseases  such  as cancer,  heart  disease  and  other  diseases; 
Recognizing  that  the  Organization  has  established  a system  of co-ordination  of research  through 
collaboration  with  laboratories  and  institutions  on a world-wide  scale;  and 
Recognizing  that  a well-designed  plan  for expanding  the role  of WHO  in research  would  merit  the 
support  of many  Member  States, 
I. 1.  THANKS  the United  States  of America  for this  initiative; 
2. BELIEVES  that,  within  the  provisions  of its Constitution,  the  Organization  can  profitably  expand  its 
role in research; 
3. REQUESTS  the  Director-General  : 
(1) to organize  and  arrange  for a special  study  of the role  of WHO  in research  and  of ways  in which 
the Organization  might  assist  more  adequately  in stimulating  and  co-ordinating  research  and  developing  research  personnel; 
(2) to prepare  a plan  on the basis  of such  study  in the furtherance  of research,  for transmission  to 
the twenty-third  session  of the Executive  Board  and  to the Twelfth  World  Health  Assembly,  with 
cost estimates; 
II. 1.  AUTHORIZES  the Director-General  to take  the necessary  steps  to receive  the contribution  of $300  000 
from  the United  States  of America  which  the Eleventh  World  Health  Assembly  with  appreciation  accepts 
in accordance  with  Article  57 of the Constitution; 
2. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to establish  under  Financial  Regulations  6.6 and  6.7 a special  account 
for the purposes  set forth  in paragraph  1.3  above; 
3. DECIDES  that  the  funds  in the  special  account  shall  be available  for  incurring  obligations  for  the 
purposes  set out in paragraph  1.3 of this  resolution,  and  that,  notwithstanding  Financial  Regulation  4.3, 
the unexpended  balance  of the account  shall  be carried  forward  from  one  financial  year  to the next;  and 
4. REQUESTS  the  Director-General  to present  the  operations  financed  or planned  to be financed  from 
this special  account  separately  in the annual  programme  and  budget  estimates  and  to include  the operations  of the account  separately  in the annual  financial  report. 
Handb.  Res.,  4th  ed.,  1.11 Seventh  plenary  meeting,  12 June  1958  (section  6 of 
the fourth  report  of the Committee  on Administration, 
Finance  and  Legal  Matters) 
