WHA9.48  Additional  Regulations  of 23 May  1956  amending  the  International  Sanitary  Regulations  with respect  to the  Sanitary  Control  of Pilgrim  Traffic 
The Ninth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Considering  that  special  measures  for the sanitary  control  of pilgrim  traffic  approaching  or leaving 
the Hedjaz  during  the season  of the pilgrimage  are no longer  required  and  that  consequently  the relevant 
provisions  of the International  Sanitary  Regulations  and  of Annexes  A and  B thereto  may  be abrogated  ; 
Having  regard  to Articles  2 (k), 21 (a) and  22 of the Constitution  of the World  Health  Organization, 
ADOPTS  this  23rd  day  of May  1956,  the  following  Additional  Regulations  : 
ARTICLE  I 
1. In  Articles  1, 102 and 103,  Appendix  2 and Annexes  A and  B of the International  Sanitary  Regulations, 
there  shall  be made  the  following  amendments  : 
Article  1 — Definitions  of "pilgrim",  "pilgrim  ship",  "Pilgrimage",  "sanitary  station  ", "season 
of the Pilgrimage  " and  " ship's  surgeon  " 
Delete  these  definitions  in their  entirety. 
Article  102 
Delete  this  Article  in its entirety. 
Article  103 
In paragraph  1, delete  the words  " Migrants  or seasonal  workers  " and  replace  by the words  " Migrants,  seasonal  workers  or persons  taking  part  in periodic  mass  congregations  ". 
Appendix  2 — International  Certificate  of Vaccination  or Revaccination  against  Cholera 
In the text  of this  Appendix,  delete  the second  paragraph  in the English  text  commencing  with  the 
words  " Notwithstanding  the  above  provisions  " and  ending  with  the  words  " second  injection  ", and 
in the corresponding  French  text  with  the words  " Nonobstant  les dispositions  ci-dessus  " and  " seconde 
injection  ". 
Annex  A — Sanitary  Control  of Pilgrim  Traffic  approaching  or leaving  the  Hedjaz  during  the Season  of 
the Pilgrimage 
Delete  this  Annex  in its entirety. 
Annex  B — Standards  of Hygiene  on  Pilgrim  Ships  and  on Aircraft  carrying  Pilgrims 
Delete  this  Annex  in its entirety. 
2. Each  State  bound  by these  Additional  Regulations  undertakes  to require  adequate  standards  of hygiene  and  accommodation  on ships  and  aircraft  carrying  persons  taking  part  in periodic  mass  congrega-tions,  and  such  standards  shall  be no less  effective  than  those  in effect  under  the International  Sanitary Regulations  prior  to the  entry-into-force  of these  Additional  Regulations. 
ARTICLE  II 
The period  provided  in execution  of Article  22 of the Constitution  of the Organization  for rejection 
or reservation  shall  be six months  from  the date  of the notification  by the Director-General  of the adoption 
of these  Additional  Regulations  by the  World  Health  Assembly. 
ARTICLE  III 
These  Additional  Regulations  shall  come  into  force  on the  first  day  of January  1957. 
ARTICLE  IV 
The following  final  provisions  of the International  Sanitary  Regulations  shall  apply  to these  Additional 
Regulations  : paragraph  3 of Article  106,  paragraphs  1 and  2 and  the  first  sentence  of paragraph  5 
of 107,  108  and  paragraph  2 of 109,  substituting  the date  mentioned  in Article  III of these  Additional 
Regulations  for  that  mentioned  therein,  110  to 113  inclusive. 
IN FAITH  WHEREOF  we have  set our  hands  at Geneva  this  23rd  day  of May  1956. 
Handb.  Res.,  3rd  ed„  1.3.1 J. PARISOT 
President  of the World  Health  Assembly 
M. G.  CANDAU 
Director-General  of the World  Health  Organization 
Twelfth  plenary  meeting,  23 May  1956  (section  4 of the fourth  report  of the Committee  on Programme  and Budget) 
