WHA25.45  Smallpox  eradication 
The Twenty-fifth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the  Director-General's  report  on the  smallpox  eradication  programme  ； 
Appreciating  the  significant  progress  made  to date  in programmes  throughout  the  world,  and  congratulating  those  countries  which  have  succeeded  in eradicating  the  disease; 
Noting  with  concern,  however,  that  endemic  smallpox  still  exists  in parts  of Africa  and  Asia  and  that 
smallpox  has  recently  reappeared  in several  countries  which  were  free  from  the disease, 
1. REQUESTS  all Member  States  to continue  to give  priority  attention  to the  eradication  of smallpox,  to 
intensify  their  efforts  to interrupt  transmission  of the  disease  in the  remaining  endemic  areas  as soon  as 
possible,  and  to prevent  smallpox  from  re-establishing  itself  in countries  from  which  it has  been 
eliminated  ； 
2. URGES  all governments  concerned  : 
(a) to  report  immediately  to the  Organization,  as already  required,  all cases  of smallpox,  and  in 
particular  to use  the most  rapid  means  in respect  of any  case  which  occurs  in a non-endemic  area; 
(b) to  establish  or strengthen  national  surveillance  systems  with  a view  to the identification  of sources 
of infection,  the rapid  containment  of outbreaks,  and  the  elimination  of endemic  foci; 
3. REQUESTS  the  Director-General  to arrange  to transmit  promptly  to all Member  States  whom  it may 
concern  information  provided  under  paragraph  2 (a)； 
4. RECOMMENDS  further  that  countries  normally  free  of smallpox,  where  cases  occur  or are  suspected, 
inform  WHO  fully  of their  epidemiological  investigations  and  give  such  opportunity  of WHO  participation 
as would  best  facilitate  international  coordination  of the measures  taken  ； 
5. REQUESTS  the Director-General  : 
(a) to  provide  assessment  teams  on request  to countries  which  have  recently  interrupted  smallpox 
transmission  ； 
(b) to  continue  to extend  every  possible  assistance  to countries  to facilitate  progress  in the programme, 
including  the  development,  to the  extent  possible,  of audiovisual  materials  such  as illustrated  books 
and films; 
6. THANKS  those  countries  that  are generously  contributing  vaccine  to the programme,  either  under  bilateral 
agreements  or through  the  WHO  Voluntary  Fund  for  Health  Promotion; 
7. RECOMMENDS  the  intensification  of research  on all aspects  of the  problem,  including  the  laboratory 
diagnosis  of smallpox,  the treatment  of smallpox  cases,  immunizing  mechanisms  in pox  virus  infections  and 
the effects  of simultaneous  application  of several  different  antigens;  and 
8. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to report  to the Twenty-sixth  World  Health  Assembly  on the progress 
of the eradication  programme. 
Handb.  Res.,  11th  ed.，1.5.6 Fourteenth  plenary  meeting,  25 May  1972 
(Committee  A,  third  report) 
