should be requested only when necessary for the purpose of the Organizations mandated activities and after all possible steps have been taken to finance such increases through savings efficiencies and prioritization, 1. APPROVES the programme of work, as outlined in the Proposed programme budget 2020 2021, and its strategic priorities and other areas, noting also the background information on its operationalization; 2. APPROVES the budget for the financial period 2020 2021, under all sources of funds, namely, assessed and voluntary contributions, of US$ 5840.4 million; 3. ALLOCATES the budget for the financial period 2020 2021 to the following strategic priorities and other areas: Strategic priorities 1. One billion more people benefiting from universal health coverage, US$ 1358.8 million; 2. One billion more people better protected from health emergencies, US$ 888.8 million; 3. One billion more people enjoying better health and well-being, US$ 431.1 million; 4. More effective and efficient WHO providing better support to countries, US$ 1090.0 million (including financing the United Nations Resident Coordinator system inaccordance with relevant resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly; Other areas Polio eradication (US$ 863.0 million), Special programmes (US$ 208.7 million) totalling US$ 1071.7 million; and Emergency operations and appeals (US$ 1000.0 million) which, being subject to the event-driven nature of the activities concerned, is an estimated budget requirement informed by recent experience, but which can be subject to increase as necessary; 4. RESOLVES that the budget will be financed as follows: by net assessments on Member States adjusted for estimated Member State non-assessed income, fora total of US$ 956.9 million; from voluntary contributions, fora total of US$ 4883.5 m illion; WHA 72.1 3 5. FURTHER RESOLVES that the gross amount of the assessed contribution for each Member State shall be reduced by the sum standing to their credit in the Tax Equalization Fund; that this reduction shall be adjusted in the case of those Members that require staff members to pay income taxes on their WHO emoluments, taxes which the Organization reimburses to said staff members; and that the amount of such tax reimbursements is estimated at US$ 21.0 million, resulting in a total assessment on Members of US$ 977.9 million; 6. DECIDES that the Working Capital Fund shall be maintained at its existing level of US$ 31.0 million; 7. AUTHORIZES the Director-General touse the assessed contributions together with the voluntary contributions, subject to the availability of resources, to finance the budget as allocated in paragraph 3, up to the amounts approved; 8. FURTHER AUTHORIZES the Director-General, where necessary, to make budget transfers among the four strategic priorities, up to an amount not exceeding 5% of the amount allocated to the strategic priority from which the transfer is made. Any such transfers will be reported with explanation in the statutory reports to the respective governing bodies; 9. FURTHER AUTHORIZES the Director-General, where necessary, to incur additional expenditures in the Emergency operations and appeals area, subject to availability of resources; 10. FURTHER AUTHORIZES the Director-General, where necessary, to incur additional expenditures in the Special programmes component of the budget beyond the amount allocated for this component, as a result of additional governance and resource mobilization mechanisms, aswell as their budget cycle, which inform the annual / biennial budgets for these special programmes, subject to availability of resources; 11. REQUESTS the Director-General: (1) to continue developing the results framework in consultation with Member States, including through the regional committees, and to present it to the Executive Board at its 146th session; (2) to present a resource mobilization strategy to the Executive Board at its 146th session; (3) to submit regular reports to Member States on the state of financing and implementation of the Programme budget , including amid-term results report, through the Executive Board and its Programme, Budget and Administration Committee, to the Health Assembly; (4) to submit to the Seventy-fifth World Health Assembly in 2022, a report on: the implementation of the entire Programme budget over the period 2020 2021; outputs by major offices and at country level, including as measured by balanced scorecards, and, as appropriate, by outcome indicators; (5) to control costs and secure efficiencies across the entire Organization, and to report with detailed information on saving sand efficiencies. Sixth plenary meeting, 24 May 201 9 A72 / VR / 6 = = =