1 The Sixty-fifth World Health Assembly, I Pursuant to Article 31 of the Constitution and Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure of the World Health Assembly, APPROVES the contract establishing the terms and co nditions of appointment, salary and other emoluments for the post of Director-General; II Pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure the World Health Assembly, AUTHORIZES the President of the Sixty-fifth World Health Assembly to sign this contract in the name of the Organization. Seventh plenary meeting, 23 May 2012 A65 / VR / 7 1 See Annex. WHA65.2 2 ANNEX CONTRACT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL THIS CONTRACT is made this twenty-third day of May of the year two thousand and twelve between the World Health Organization (hereinafter called the Organization) of the one part and Dr Margaret Fu Chun Chan Fung (hereinafter called the Director-General) of the other part. WHEREAS (1) It is provided by Article 31 of the Constitution of the Organization that the Director- General of the Organization shall be appointed by the World Health Assembly (hereinafter called the Health Assembly) on the nomination of the Executive Board (hereinafter called the Board) on such terms as the Health Assembly may decide; and (2) The Director-General has been duly nominated by the Board and appointed by the Health Assembly at its meeting held on the twenty-third day of May of the year two thousand and twelve fora period of five years. NOW THIS CONTRACT WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed as follows, I. (1) The Director-General shall serve from the first day of July of the year two thousand and twelve until the thirtieth day of June of the year two thousand and seventeen, on which date the appointment and this Contract shall terminate. (2) Subject to the authority of the Board, the Dire ctor-General shall exercise the functions of chief technical and administrative officer of the Organization and shall perform such duties as maybe specified in the Constitution and in the rules the Organization and / or as maybe assigned herby the Health Assembly or the Board. (3) The Director-General shall be subject to the Staff Regulations of the Organization insofar as they maybe applicable to her. In particular she shall not hold any other administrative post, and shall not receive emoluments from any outside sourc es in respect of activities relating to the Organization. She shall not engage in business or in any employment or activity that would interfere with her duties in the Organization. (4) The Director-General, during the term of this a ppointment, shall enjoy all the privileges and immunities in keeping with the office by virtue of the Constitution of the Organization and any relevant arrangements already in force or tobe con cluded in the future. (5) The Director-General may at any time give six m onths notice of resignation in writing to the Board, which is authorized to accept such resignation on behalf of the Health Assembly; in which case, upon the expiration of the said period of not ice, the Director-General shall cease to hold the appointment and this Contract shall terminate. (6) The Health Assembly shall have the right, on the proposal of the Board and after hearing the Director-General and subject toat least six mo nths notice in writing, to terminate this Contract for reasons of exceptional gravity likely to prejudice the interests of the Organization. WHA65.2 3 II. (1) As from the first day of July of the year two thousand and twelve the Director-General shall receive from the Organization an annual salary of two hundred and thirty-two thousand eight hundred and fifty-nine United States dollars, before staff assessment, resulting in a net salary (to bepaid monthly) of one hundred and seventy-six thousand five hundred and one United States dollars per annum at the dependency rate (one hundred and f ifty-six thousand nine hundred and sixty four United States dollars at the single rate) or its equivalent in such other currency as maybe mutually agreed between the parties to this Contract. (2) In addition to the normal adjustments and allow ances authorized to staff members under the Staff Rules, the Director-General shall receive an annual representation allowance of twenty-one thousand United States dollars or its equivalent in such other currency as maybe mutually agreed between the parties to this Contract, bepaid monthly commencing on the first day of July of the year two thousand and twelve. The allowance shall be used at her discretion entirely in respect of representation in connection with her official duties. She shall be entitled to such reimbursable allowances as travel allowances and removal costs on appointment, on subsequent change of official station, on termination of appoi ntment, or on official travel and home leave travel . III. The terms of the present Contract relating to rates of salary and representation allowance are subject to review and adjustment by the Health Asse mbly, on the proposal of the Board and after consultation with the Director-General, in order to bring them into conformity with any provision regarding the conditions of employment of staff mem bers which the Health Assembly may decide to apply to staff members already in the service. IV. If any question of interpretation or any dispute arises concerning this Contract that is not settled by negotiation or agreement, the matter shall bere ferred for final decision to the competent tribunal provided for in the Staff Rules. WHEREUNTO we have set our hands the day and year first above written. (signed) Dr M.Chan (signed) Professor T. NDri-Yoman Director-General President of the World Health Assembly = = =