The Thirty-eighth World Health Assembly, Having considered the recommendations of the Executive Board on the Working Capital Fund; DECIDES that ...---....":. ":..:. , . i;"-.!-- (1) Part I of the Working Capital Fund, composed of advances assessed on Members and Associate Members 9 shall be established in the amount of 5 132 750, to which shall be added the assessments of any Members or Associate Members joining the Organization after 30 September 1984; .:'. .. ...:'.... r V' ).,.- . .V-.,: .-.-, ..:ib >' (2) the advances to the Working Capital Fund shall be assessed on the basiezf the scale of assessments tobe adopted by the Thirty-eighth World Health Assembly for the financial period 1986-1987, adjusted to the nearest US 10; (3) any additional advances shall be due and payable on 1 January 1986; THIRTY-EIGHTH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA38.8 _eJUJ <^1 RESOLUTION OF THE WORLD ^P^f^Sip ASSEMBLY RSOLUTION DE L'ASSEMBLE DI AI E LA SANT :1 RESOLUCION DE LA AM L E VI N DA / LA SALUD (4) 198 198 i WHA38.8 page 2 (2) such sums as maybe required during a calendar year to meet unforeseen or extraordinary expenses, and to increase the relevant appropriation sections accordingly, provided that not more than USfc 250 000 are used for such purposes, except that with the prior concurrence of the Executive Board a total of US$ 2 000 000 maybe used; ..,... (3) such sums as maybe required for the provision of emergency supplies to Members and Associate Members qii, a Reimbursable basis; sums so advanced be reimbursed to the Working Capital Fund when payments are received; provided that the total amount so withdrawn shall not exceed US 200 000 at anyone time, and provided further that the credit extended to anyone Member or Associate Member shall not exceed US$ 50 000 at anyone time; .--..:: / .- " ". 2. REQUESTS the Director-General to report annually to the Health Assembly; (1) all advances made under the authority vested in him to meet unforeseen or extraordinary expenses and the circumstances relating thereto, and to make provision in the estimates for the reimbursement of the Working Capital Fund, except when such advances are recoverable from other sources; (2) all advances made under the authority of paragraph C.l(3) for the provision of emergency supplies to Members and Associate Members, together with the status of reimbursement by those concerned D 1. REQUESTS Members and Associate Members to make every effort to pay their on the dates on which they are due, in order to preclude the need to increase the Working Capital Fund 2. REQUESTS the Director-General to continue his efforts to secure early payment of Members' and Associate Members' assessed contributions E REQUESTS the Director-General to submit a report on the Working Capital Fund to the Executive Board and the Health Assembly when he considers it warranted* contributions the amount of Eleventh plenary meeting, 13 May 1985 A38 / VR / 11