 
 
 
SEVENT Y-FIRST  WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY  WHA 71.2 
Agenda item 11.7 26 May 20 18 
Preparation for the third High -level Meeting of the 
General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of 
Non-communicable Diseases, to be held in 2018  
The Seventy -first World Health Assembly,  
Having considered the reports on the Preparation for the third High -level Meeting of the 
General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non -communicable Diseases, to be held in 2018;1 
Having recognized that the Political Declaration of the High -level Meeting of the General 
Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non -communicable Diseases2 has catalysed action and 
retains great potential for engendering progress towar ds Sustainable Development Goal target 3.4 (by 
2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases through prevention 
and treatment and promote mental health and well -being);3 
Noting with concern that, according to WHO, each year, 1 5 million people between the ages of 
30 and 69 years die from a noncommunicable disease and that the current levels of decline in the risk 
of dying prematurely from noncommunicable diseases are insufficient to attain Sustainable 
Development Goal target 3.4  by 2030;  
Welcoming the convening of the WHO Global Conference on Non -communicable Diseases,4 
which was organized by Uruguay and WHO, co -chaired by Finland, the Russian Federation and 
Uruguay, from 18 to 20 October 2017 in Montevideo;  
Welcoming also the co nvening of the WHO Global Dialogue on Partnerships for Sustainable 
Financing of Noncommunicable Disease (NCD) Prevention and Control hosted by the Government of 
Denmark and WHO, from 9 to 11 April 2018 in Copenhagen, recognizing the need to prioritize 
tackling noncommunicable diseases as an essential pillar of sustainable development and an integral 
part of countries’ efforts towards universal health coverage;  
Recalling the Shanghai Declaration on promoting health in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Developm ent, adopted at the 9th Global Conference on Health Promotion, held in China from 21 to 
24 November 2016;  
                                                      
1 Documents A71/14 and A71/14 Add.1.  
2 United Nations General Assembly resolution 66/2.  
3 United Nations General Assembly resolution 70/1.  
4 WHO Global Conference on Noncommunicable diseases: Enhancing policy coherence between different spheres of 
policy making that have a bearing on attaining SDG target 3.4 on NCDs by 2030 [website]. Geneva; World Health 
Organization: 2018 ( http://www.who.int/nmh/events/2017/montevideo/about/en/ , accessed 18 May 2018).  WHA 71.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Taking note that the Director -General has established a WHO Independent High -level 
Commission on Noncommunicable Diseases1 and a WHO Civil Society Wor king Group on the 
third  High -level Meeting of the General Assembly on NCDs;2 
Recalling United Nations General Assembly resolution 72/274 (2018) on the scope, modalities, 
format and organization of the third high -level meeting of the General Assembly on the  prevention 
and control of non -communicable diseases,  
1. WELCOMES the outcome document of the WHO Global Conference on the Prevention and  
Control of Non -communicable Diseases entitled “Montevideo roadmap (2018 -2030) on the prevention 
and control of Noncommuni cable Diseases as a sustainable development priority”,3,4 as a contribution 
to the preparatory process leading to the third High -level Meeting;  
2. URGES Member States:5 
(1) to continue to step up efforts on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseas es 
in order to attain Sustainable Development Goal target 3.4 by 2030;  
(2) to actively engage in the preparations at national, regional and global levels for the third 
High -level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of 
Non-communicable Diseases, to be held in 2018;  
(3) to be represented at the level of Heads of State and Government at the High -level 
Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non -communicable 
Diseases and to call for action through a con cise, action -oriented outcome document;  
3. REQUESTS the Director -General:  
(1) to continue to support Member States, in coordination with United Nations specialized 
agencies, funds and programmes as well as other stakeholders, in their efforts to reduce by one  
third premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases through prevention and control and 
promote mental health and well -being, including by applying evidence -based multisectoral and 
multistakeholder approaches;  
(2) to report to the Seventy -second World Health Assembly, through the Executive Board, on 
the outcomes of the third High -level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and 
Control of Non -communicable Diseases and its follow -up. 
  
                                                      
1 WHO Independent High -level Commission on N CDs [website] Geneva: World Health Organization: 2018 
(http://www.who.int/ncds/governance/high -level -commission/en/ , accessed 18 May 2018).  
2WHO Civil  Society Working Group on the  third High -level Meeting of the UN General Assembly on NCDs 
[website] Geneva: World Health Organization: 2018 ( http://www.who.int/ncds/govern ance/high -level -meetings/working group -third -high-level -meeting/en/ , accessed 18 May 2018).  
3 See Annex . 
4 Clarification Statement: http://ww w.who.int/conferences/global -ncdconference/USA_statement_EOP_montevideo_roadmap.pdf?ua=1 , accessed 18 May 2018.  
5 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations.    WHA 71.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3 ANNEX  
WHO GLOBAL CONFERENC E ON NCDS  
PURSUING POLICY COHE RENCE TO ACHIEVE SDG  TARGET 3.4 ON NCDS  
(MONTEVIDEO, URUGUAY , 18–20 OCTOBER 2017)  
MONTEVIDEO ROADMAP 2 018–2030 ON NCDS AS A SU STAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT PRIORITY  
1. We, Heads of State and Government, Ministers and representatives of State and G overnment 
participating in this Conference, have come together to restate our commitment to take bold action and 
accelerate progress to, by 2030, reduce by one third the premature mortality from non -communicable 
diseases (NCDs) in line with the 2030 Agenda  for Sustainable Development. We continue to be 
inspired by the action catalysed by the 2011 Political Declaration of the UN General Assembly on 
NCDs, and the WHO Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of NCDs 2013 –2020. We 
reaffirm our commitme nt to their implementation, according to national context.  
2. We acknowledge that premature mortality from NCDs1 continues to constitute one of the major 
challenges for development in the 21st century, driven by economic, environmental and social 
determinants  of health. Despite the remarkable progress achieved in some countries or regions, this 
has been highly uneven and insufficient to reach the global target on NCDs. Each year, 15 million 
people between the ages of 30 and 69 years die from an NCD; over 80% o f these premature deaths 
occur in developing countries, disproportionally affecting the poorest and those furthest behind. 
Implementing coherent policies and ensuring that cost -effective, affordable  and evidenced -based NCD 
interventions are available to al l countries, according to national context and priorities, can reduce 
inequities and premature deaths from NCDs.  
3. We recognize the importance of SDG 3 and ensuring that people not just survive, but live long 
and healthy lives, as well as the importance of preventing NCDs as specified in SDG target 3.4 on 
NCDs in achieving this overall goal. We also recognize that there are obstacles that countries must 
overcome to achieving SDG target 3.4.2 Addressing the complexity of the main risk factors, namely: 
tobacco  use, physical inactivity, harmful use of alcohol and unhealthy diets, as well as air pollution, 
and the determinants of NCDs, including health literacy, requires multisectoral responses which are 
challenging to develop and implement, particularly when rob ust monitoring of NCD risk factors is 
absent at country level. Consequently, successful action requires enhanced political leadership to 
advance strategic, outcome -oriented action across sectors and policy coherence for the prevention and 
control of NCDs, in line with whole -of-government and health -in-all-policies approaches.  
4. One obstacle at country level is the lack of capacity to effectively address public health goals 
when they are in conflict with private sector interests, in order to effectively levera ge the roles and 
contributions of the diverse range of stakeholders in combatting NCDs. Policies to prevent and control 
                                                      
1 Mainly four types of noncommunicable diseases (NCDs): cardiovascular di seases, cancers, chronic respiratory 
diseases and diabetes.  
2 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases through prevention and 
treatment and promote mental health and well -being.  WHA 71.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 NCDs, including effective regulatory and fiscal measures, may be negatively influenced by private 
sector and other non -State actors’ int erests, and may be subject to legal disputes or other means to 
delay, curtail or prevent their effective use to reach public health goals. Health systems need to 
improve NCD prevention, diagnosis and management and to strengthen effective health promotion 
over the life course, as part of efforts to achieve universal health coverage and reduce health 
inequities, including in the context of population ageing. Reducing NCDs should be a higher priority 
across the relevant UN Agencies, NGOs, philanthropic founda tions and academic institutions. The 
increasing disease burden from NCDs should be taken fully into account in international cooperation 
and development policies with a view to address the unmet demand for technical cooperation to 
strengthen national capac ities.  
5. Unless coherent political action to address these obstacles is accelerated, engaging across 
sectors and across stakeholders, the current rate of decline in premature mortality from NCDs is 
insufficient to meet SDG 3.4 by 2030. In order to address th e premature mortality and excess 
morbidity caused by NCDs, we commit to pursue these actions:  
Reinvigorate political action  
6. We will continue to address the complexity and challenging nature of developing and 
implementing  coherent  multisectoral policies acr oss government through a health -in-all-policies 
approach in order  to achieve improved outcomes from the perspectives of health, health equity and 
health system functioning.  
7. We will prioritize the most cost -effective, affordable, equitable and evidence -based 
interventions that will bring the highest public health return on investment, in accordance with 
national context  and priorities. We will emphasize health as a political priority, with measures that 
address the impact of the major NCD risk factors, incl uding regulation, standard setting and fiscal 
policies and other measures that are consistent with countries’ domestic legal frameworks  and 
international  obligations.  
8. We will act across relevant government sectors to create health -conducive environments a nd 
identify opportunities to establish concrete cross -sectoral commitments in order to promote co -benefits 
and to reduce negative impacts on health, including through health impact assessments. We will 
encourage NCDs implementation  research to enhance the operationalization of national strategies and 
integrate them, where possible, within wider health sector strategic planning. We will work 
collaboratively to share and improve the implementation of best practices towards implementing 
innovative approaches t o ensure improved surveillance and monitoring systems to support these 
actions.  
Enable health systems to respond more effectively to NCDs  
9. We will strengthen, as necessary, essential population level, people -centred public health 
functions and institutions for effective prevention and control of NCDs, including palliative care, and 
to promote mental health and wellbeing.  
10. We will continue inv esting in health workers as an essential part of strengthening health systems 
and social protection. We will work to ensure a highly skilled, well -trained and well -resourced health 
workforce to lead and implement actions to promote health and prevent and c ontrol NCDs.    WHA 71.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  5 11. We commit to improve implementation of cost -effective measures of health promotion, 
including health literacy, and disease prevention throughout the lifecycle, early detection, health 
surveillance, and reduction of risk factors, including exp osure to environmental risk factors, and 
sustained efforts to address people at risk, as well as the treatment and care for people with NCDs.  
12. Recognizing that mental disorders and other mental health conditions contribute to the global 
NCD burden  and that  people with mental disorders and other mental health conditions have an 
increased risk of other NCDs and higher rates of morbidity and mortality, we commit to implementing  
measures to improve mental health and well -being, address their social determinants  and other health 
needs and human rights of people with mental disorders and other mental health conditions  and 
prevent suicides  as part of a comprehensive response to NCDs.  
13. We will work towards enhancing synergies in preventing and controlling communicabl e 
diseases and NCDs at the national, regional, and global levels, where appropriate, recognizing the 
opportunity to achieve gains through integrated approaches.  
14. We will work to ensure the availability of resources and strengthen the capacity to respond mo re 
effectively and equitably to NCDs as part of Universal Health Coverage, including through 
strengthened community -level prevention and health services delivery and access to essential NCD 
medicines and technologies for all. In our health systems, we will  strive to secure access to quality 
basic and specialised health services,  including with  financial risk protection in order to avoid social 
and economic hardship.  
15. Recalling previous commitments, we will better measure and respond to the critical differences 
in specific risk factors and determinants affecting morbidity and mortality from NCDs for children, 
adolescents, women and men across the life course, and pursue and promote gender -based approaches 
for the prevention and control of  NCDs to address these critical differences. We invite WHO to 
provide guidance on how to accelerate the implementation of national efforts to address the critical 
differences in the risks of morbidity and mortality from NCDs for men and women, boys and gir ls.  
Increase significantly the financing of national NCD responses and international cooperation  
16. We acknowledge that national NCDs responses – supported through domestic, bilateral and 
multilateral channels – require adequate, predictable and sustained fi nancing, commensurate with the 
global health and socioeconomic burden they impose. We will start by prioritizing domestic budgetary 
allocations for addressing NCDs, where possible.  
17. Where needed, we will work on national investments cases for the preventio n and control of 
NCDs, their risk factors and determinants, to create the fiscal space for action. We will consider 
applying policy options that, in addition to having a positive effect on reducing the occurrence of 
NCDs throughout the life course, also ha ve the capacity to generate complementary revenues to 
finance national NCD responses, as appropriate. These options may include, consistent with national 
policies and international obligations, taxation, including of tobacco as well as other products. We w ill 
continue to explore other complementary financing options, including voluntary innovative financing 
mechanisms, as appropriate.  
18. We call upon UN agencies and other global health actors to scale up support to governments in 
developing and implementing t he national responses for the prevention and control of NCDs, 
including palliative care aligned with national priorities. We look to WHO to continue to exercise its 
global leadership and coordination role and to explore how existing mechanisms could best b e WHA 71.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 leveraged to identify and share information on existing and potential sources of finance and 
development cooperation mechanisms for the prevention and control of NCDs at the local, national, 
regional and global levels to support action to reach SDG 3.4 o n NCDs and better integrate NCDs into 
development funding mechanisms.  
19. NCDs can perpetuate poverty. For the poor and near poor, chronic illness and disability can be 
an economic catastrophe. Hard fought economic gains can be quickly wiped out, especially w hen 
diagnosis, treatment, and palliative care services are not available or accessible. Women face a double 
NCD burden, often assuming gender -based roles as unpaid caregivers for the sick. We will take action 
on the impacts of NCDs on poverty and developme nt using gender -based approaches. We strongly 
encourage including the prevention and control of NCDs in Official Development Assistance to 
complement domestic resources and catalyse additional resources for action, including research.  
Increase efforts to engage sectors beyond health  
20. We acknowledge that working constructively with public sectors beyond health is essential in 
reducing NCD risk factors and achieving health gains to reduce premature deaths from NCDs. In 
addition, we recognize the interconnecte dness between the prevention and control of NCDs and the 
achievement of the SDGs beyond target 3.4, including targets related to poverty, substance abuse, 
nutrition, hazardous environmental exposure, sustainable cities and others. Coordinated upstream 
action across sectors, including agriculture, environment, industry, trade and finance, education and 
urban planning, as well as research, will help to create a healthy and enabling environment that 
promotes effective, coherent policies and supports healthy be haviours and lifestyles. The health sector 
has a role to play in advocating for these actions, presenting evidence -based information, supporting 
health impact assessments and providing policy reviews and analyses on how decisions impact health, 
including i mplementation research with a view to increase and scale up implementation of best 
practices. We therefore commit to strong leadership and to fostering collaboration among sectors to 
implement policies to achieve shared goals.  
21. We will enhance policy and l egal expertise to develop NCDs responses in order to achieve the 
SDGs. We call upon the UN Inter -Agency Task Force on the Prevention and Control of NCDs and its 
Members, within their mandates, to scale up and broaden intersectoral work integrating expertis e 
relevant to public health -related legal issues into NCD country support, including by providing 
evidence, technical advice, and case studies relevant to legal challenges. We encourage the 
UN Inter -Agency Task Force on the Prevention and Control of NCDs t o explore the relationship 
between NCDs and the law to improve support to Member States in this area and to raise the priority it 
gives to this work.  
22. We recognize that access to education that promotes health literacy at all levels of society and 
contexts  is a key determinant of health. In particular, the school environment will be enabled to 
provide evidence -based education, including information and skills. We will improve 
awareness -raising on health and well -being throughout society, including the preve ntion and control of 
NCDs supported through public awareness campaigns and health -conducive environments that make 
the healthy choice the easier choice and facilitate behavioural changes. Besides the general 
responsibility of relevant sectors to promote he alth, it is in particular the task of the health sector to 
develop and provide appropriate information to increase health literacy.  
23. We will scale up efforts to use information and communication technologies, including e -health 
and m -health, and other non -traditional and innovative solutions, to accelerate action towards 
achieving SDG target 3.4 by 2030.    WHA 71.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  7 24. We are concerned that the increased production and consumption of energy -dense, nutrient poor 
foods has contributed to diets that are high in saturated fa ts, sugars and salts. We will work towards 
advancing the implementation of global strategies and recommendations that aim at strengthening 
national food and nutrition policies, and their monitoring. This would include, inter alia, developing 
guidelines and  recommendations that support and encourage healthy diets throughout the life course of 
our citizens, increasing the availability and affordability of healthy, safe nutritious food, including 
fruits and vegetables, while enabling healthier food choices as part of a balanced diet, and ensuring 
access to clean and safe drinking water. We call on WHO and FAO and other relevant international 
organizations to fully leverage the UN Decade of Action on Nutrition to promote health -conducive 
food production and supp ly systems reduce diet -related NCDs and contribute to ensure healthy diets 
for all.  
25. We call on WHO to fast -track its review of national and regional experience of intersectoral 
policies to achieve SDG 3, and particularly target 3.4 on NCDs, to update its guidance on 
multisectoral and multi -stakeholder action for the prevention and control of NCDs and disseminate 
knowledge and best practices through WHO GCM/NCD’s1 communities of practice in a manner 
supportive of action at country level.  
Reinforce the role  of non -State actors  
26. We acknowledge the need to engage with non -State actors in view of their significant role for 
the advancement and promotion of the highest attainable standard of health and to encourage 
non-State actors to use their own activities to protect and promote public health, in line with national 
context and priorities.  
27. We will increase opportunities for meaningful participation of, where and as appropriate, 
nongovernmental organizations, private sector entities, philanthropic foundations an d academic 
institutions, in building coalitions and alliances across the spheres of sustainable development in the 
prevention and control of NCDs, recognizing that they can complement the efforts of governments at 
varying levels and support the achievement  of SDG target 3.4, in particular in developing countries.  
28. We call on the private sector, ranging from micro -enterprises to cooperatives to multinationals, 
to contribute to addressing NCDs as a development priority, in the context of the achievement of the  
SDGs, in particular SDG 17.2 
Seek measures to address the negative impact of products and environmental factors harmful 
for health and strengthen the contribution and accountability of the private sector and other 
non-State actors  
29. One notable challenge fo r the prevention and control of NCDs is that public health objectives 
and private sector interests can  conflict. We commit to enhancing the national capacity to engage 
constructively with the private sector for NCDs prevention and control in a way that max imizes public 
health benefits.  
30. We acknowledge that we need to continue to develop coordinated and coherent policies, 
strengthen evidence -based policy and regulatory frameworks, and align private sector incentives with 
                                                      
1 WHO  Global Coordination Mechanism on the Prevention and Control of NCDs (WHO GCM/NCD).  
2 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development.  WHA 71.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 public health goals, to make health c onducive choices available and affordable in healthy 
environments, and in particular, to empower and provide people with the necessary resources and 
knowledge, including health literacy, in order to enable healthy choices and active lifestyles.  
31. We further  encourage the private sector to produce and promote more food and beverage 
products consistent with a healthy diet including by reformulating products, especially those products 
with the largest impacts on health, to provide healthier options that are aff ordable and accessible for all 
and that follow appropriate nutrition facts and labelling standards, including information on sugars, 
salt and fats and, where relevant, trans -fat content. We also encourage the private sector to reduce the 
exposure of and im pact on children of marketing of foods and non -alcoholic beverages, consistent 
with WHO recommendations and guidance, and in accordance with national legislation, policies, and 
relevant international obligations.  
32. We acknowledge the importance of improving  environmental determinants and reducing risk 
factors in the prevention and control of NCDs and the inter linkage of SDG targets 3.4 and 3.9.1 These 
interlinkages illustrate that the prevention and control NCDs can also contribute positively to the SDG 
goal 13 on climate change. We will promote actions that are mutually reinforcing and support 
achievement of these goals and targets.  
33. We will continue to work with all stakeholders, including industry, food business operators, 
health and consumer NGOs, and ac ademia, towards the achievement of the nine voluntary NCD 
targets for 2025. This may include, as appropriate, promoting the recording and making publicly 
available of the verifiable commitments of non -State actors, as well as their reporting on the 
impleme ntation of those commitments. We call on WHO to continue the development of expertise, 
tools, guidance and approaches that can be used to register and publish contributions of non -State 
actors in the achievement of these targets, and to assist Member State s in effectively engaging 
non-State actors and leveraging their strengths in the implementation of national NCD responses.  
34. We call upon States parties, to accelerate the full implementation of the WHO Framework 
Convention on Tobacco Control, as one of the  cornerstones of the global response to NCDs and 
encourage countries that have not yet done so to consider becoming a Party to the Convention. 
Recognizing the fundamental and irreconcilable conflict of interest between the tobacco industry and 
public healt h, we will continue to implement tobacco control measures without any tobacco industry 
interference.  
35. We encourage the WHO GCM/NCD to explore the impact of economic, market and commercial 
factors on the prevention and control of NCDs to better improve the understanding of their 
implications for health outcomes and opportunities to advance action in the global NCD agenda.  
Continue relying on WHO’s leadership and key role in the global response to NCDs  
36. We reaffirm WHO as the directing and coordinating author ity on international health work and 
all its functions in this regard, including its normative work and convening role. WHO’s support is 
essential in  the development  of national NCD and mental health responses as an integral part of the 
implementation of t he 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. WHO’s advice to Member States 
on how to address the determinants and risk factors remains indispensable for the global action on 
NCDs and mental health.  
                                                      
1 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illness es from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil 
pollution and contamination.    WHA 71.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  9 37. We also reaffirm WHO’s  leadership and coordination role in promoting and monitoring global 
action  against NCDs  in relation to the work of other UN agencies, development banks, and other 
regional and international organizations in addressing NCDs in a coordinated manner.  
38. We cal l on WHO to strengthen its capacity to provide technical and policy advice and enhance 
multistakeholder engagement and dialogue, through platforms such as the WHO GCM/NCD and the 
UN Inter -Agency Task Force on NCDs .  
39. We further call on WHO to consider prior itizing the implementation of strategic actions, 
including cost -effective and evidence -based policies and interventions, in preparation of the third 
United Nations  High -level Meeting on NCDs in 2018.  
Act in unity  
40. We acknowledge that the inclusion of NCDs in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
provides the best opportunity to place health and in particular NCDs at the core of the pursuit of 
shared progress and sustainable development. Ultimately, the aspiration of the 2030 Agenda is to 
create a just  and prosperous world where all people can exercise their rights and live long and healthy 
lives.  
41. Acting in unity to address NCDs demands a renewed and strengthened commitment to show 
that we can be effective in shaping a world free of the avoidable burden  of NCDs. In so doing, we will 
continue to listen to and involve the peoples of the world – those exposed to NCD risk factors, and 
those with health care needs for NCDs and mental health. We will continue to build a future that 
ensures present and future g enerations enjoy the highest attainable standard of health and well -being . 
Seventh  plenary meeting, 26 May 201 8 
A71/VR/ 7 
=     =     =  