WHA8.30  Malaria  Eradication 
The Eighth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the  comprehensive  report  and  proposal  on malaria  eradication  submitted  by the 
Director-General  ; 
Having  examined  the  recommendations  of the XIV  Pan  American  Sanitary  Conference  in Santiago, 
Chile,  in October  1954  and  of the  Malaria  Conference  for  the  Western  Pacific  and  South-East  Asia 
Regions  in Baguio,  Philippines,  in November  1954,  concerning  the  danger  constituted  by the  potential 
development  of anopheline  resistance  to insecticides  and  concerning  measures  to obviate  that  danger  ; 
Considering  resolution  EB15.R67  adopted  by the  Executive  Board  at its fifteenth  session  after  a 
study  of the  reports  available  up to that  time  ; 
Considering  that  the  ultimate  goal  of malaria-control  programmes  should  be the eradication  of the 
disease, 
I. 1.  REQUESTS  governments  to intensify  plans  of nation-wide  malaria  control  so that  malaria  eradication 
may be achieved  and  the  regular  insecticide-spraying  campaigns  safely  terminated  before  the  potential 
danger  of a development  of resistance  to insecticides  in anopheline  vector  species  materializes  ; 
2. AUTHORIZES  the  Director-General  to request  those  governments  in whose  countries  malaria  still 
exists  to give  priority  to malaria  eradication  projects  in their  requests  for  assistance  under  the  United 
Nations  Expanded  Programme  of Technical  Assistance,  and  to provide  the  locally  available  resources 
which  are  required  to achieve  malaria  eradication  ; 
II. DECIDES  that  the  World  Health  Organization  should  take  the  initiative,  provide  technical  advice, 
and encourage  research  and  co-ordination  of resources  in the implementation  of a programme  having  as 
its ultimate  objective  the  world-wide  eradication  of malaria  ; 
III. 1.  AUTHORIZES  the  Director-General  to obtain  financial  contributions  for  malaria  eradication  from 
governmental  and  private  sources  ; 
2. ESTABLISHES,  under  Financial  Regulations  6.6  and  6.7,  a Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account,  which 
shall  be subject  to the  following  rules  : 
(1) The  Special  Account  shall  be credited  with  voluntary  contributions  received  in any  usable 
currency  and  shall  also  be credited  with  the  value  of contributions  in kind,  whether  in the form  of 
services  or supplies  and  equipment. 
(2) The  resources  in the Special  Account  shall  be available  for incurring  obligations  for the purposes 
set out in (3) below,  the unexpended  balances  of the Account  being  carried  forward  from  one  financial 
year to the  next. 
(3) The  Special  Account  shall  be used  for  the purpose  of meeting  the  costs  of : 
(a) research  ; 
(b) such  supplies  and  equipment,  apart  from  minimal  requirements  to be provided  from  regular 
and Technical  Assistance  funds,  as are  necessary  for  the  effective  implementation  of the  programme  in individual  countries  ; and 
(c) such  services  as may  be required  in individual  countries  and  as cannot  be made  available 
by the governments  of such  countries. 
(4) The  operations  planned  to be financed  from  the Special  Account  shall  be presented  separately 
in the  annual  programme  and  budget  estimates,  this  presentation  to include  an indication  as to 
whether  the  resources  required  are  known  to be available  in the  Special  Account  or from  another 
source. 
(5) In  accordance  with  Financial  Regulations  6.6 and  11.3,  the Special  Account  shall  be maintained 
as a separate  account,  and  its operations  shall  be presented  separately  in the  Director-General's 
annual  financial  report. 
IV. AUTHORIZES  the  Executive  Board  or a committee  of the  Board  to which  it may  delegate  authority 
to act between  sessions  of the Board  to carry  out  the  following  functions  : 
(1) to  accept  contributions  to the Special  Account  as provided  under  Article  57 of the Constitution  ; 
and 
(2) to  advise  the  Director-General  from  time  to time  on any  questions  of policy  relating  to the 
administration  of the Special  Account  or to the  implementation  of the programme. 
Handb.  Res.,  2nd  ed„  1.3.10;  7.1.5 Ninth  plenary  meeting,  26  May  1955  (section  1 of 
the third  report  of the Committee  on  Programme  and 
Budget) 
