WHA8.26  Amendments  to the Rules  of Procedure  of the World  Health  Assembly  1 
The Eighth  World  Health  Assembly 
1. ADOPTS  the revised  Rules  of Procedure  of the Health  Assembly  as proposed  by the Executive  Board 
at its thirteenth  session  and  as amended  at its fifteenth  session,2  subject  to the following  additions  and 
amendments  : 
Rule 4 
The Board  shall  prepare  the provisional  agenda  of each  regular  session  of the Health  Assembly 
after  consideration  of proposals  submitted  by the Director-General.  The  provisional  agenda  shall 
be dispatched  together  with  the notice  of convocation  mentioned  in Rule  3. 
Rule 6 
The Director-General  shall  draw  up the provisional  agenda  for any  special  session  of the Health 
Assembly  and  dispatch  it together  with  the notice  of convocation  mentioned  in Rule  3. 
Rule 7 
The provisional  agenda  for each  special  session  shall  include  only  those  items  proposed  in any 
request  by a majority  of the Members  and  Associate  Members  of the Organization  or by the Board 
for the holding  of the  session,  pursuant  to Rule  2. 
Rule (10)  12 
Subject  to the provisions  of Rule  (9) 11 regarding  new  activities  and  of Rule  (84)  88 bis,3  supplementary  items  may  be added  to the agenda  during  any  session  if the Health  Assembly  so decides 
or if the General  Committee  so recommends  and  such  recommendation  reaches  the Health  Assembly 
not later  than  five  days  after  the opening  of a regular  session  or two  days  after  the opening  of a special 
session. 
Rule (22)  23 
The Health  Assembly  shall  elect  a Committee  on Nominations  consisting  of eighteen  delegates 
of as many  Members. 
At the  beginning  of each  regular  session  the  President  shall  submit  to the Health  Assembly 
a list  consisting  of eighteen  Members  to comprise  a Committee  on Nominations.  Any  Member 
may propose  additions  to such  list.  On the basis  of such  list,  as amended  by any  additions  proposed, 
a vote  shall  be taken  in accordance  with  the provisions  of those  Rules  dealing  with  elections. 
Rule (27)  28 
The President,  or a vice-president  acting  as president,  shall  not  vote,  but  he may,  if necessary, appoint  another  delegate  or alternate  delegate  from  his delegation  to act as the delegate  of his govern-ment  in plenary  meetings. 
Rule (29)  30 
[Insert  the  following  between  the  first  and  second  paragraphs  in this  rule]  : 
" Each  member  of the General  Committee  may  be accompanied  by not  more  than  one  other 
member  of his delegation." 
Rule (30)  31 
[The  text  of this  Rule  as adopted  by the Executive  Board  at its thirteenth  session  was  approved.] 
Rule 47 
Representatives  of non-governmental  organizations  with  which  arrangements  for  consultation 
and co-operation  have  been  made,  in accordance  with  Article  71 of the Constitution,  may  be invited 
to attend  plenary  meetings  and  meetings  of the main  committees  of the Health  Assembly  and  to 
participate  without  vote  therein  in accordance  with  those  arrangements,  when  invited  to do so by 
the President  of the Health  Assembly  or by the chairman  of a main  committee,  respectively. 
Rule (58)  61 
A delegate  or a representative  of an Associate  Member  may  move  that  parts  of a proposal  or 
of an amendment  shall  be voted  on separately.  If objection  is made  to the  request  for division, 
the motion  for division  shall  be voted  upon.  Permission  to speak  on the motion  for division  shall 
be given  only  to two  speakers  in favour  and  two  speakers  against.  If the  motion  for  division  is 
carried,  those  parts  of the proposal  or of the amendment  which  are  subsequently  approved  shall 
be put to the vote  as a whole.  If all operative  parts  of the proposal  or the amendment  have  been 
rejected,  the proposal  or the amendment  shall  be considered  to have  been  rejected  as a whole. 
Rule 59 1 
[Rule  59, as proposed  by the Executive  Board  at its thirteenth  session,  should  be inserted  between 
Rule  55 and  Rule  (54)  56.] 
Rule (60)  63 
[The  amendment  concerns  the  French  text  only.] 
Rule (66)  69 
[The  amendment  concerns  the  French  text  only.] 
Rule (84)  88 2 
[Delete  sub-paragraph  (e).] 
New Rule  (84)  88 bis 3 
No proposal  for a review  of the apportionment  of the contribution  among  Members  and  Associate 
Members  for the time  being  in force  shall  be placed  on the agenda  unless  it has been  communicated 
to Members  and  Associate  Members  at least  ninety  days  before  the opening  of the session,  or unless 
the Board  has  recommended  such  review. 
2. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to prepare  a text  of these  revised  Rules  of Procedure  in the Spanish 
language  for submission  to and  adoption  by the Ninth  World  Health  Assembly. 
Handb.  Res.,  2nd  ed.,  4.1.1 Ninth  plenary  meeting,  26  May  1955  (section  9 of 
the third  report  of the Committee  on  Administration, 
Finance  and  Legal  Matters) 
