WHA27.17 Amendments  to the Rules  of Procedures  of the World  Health  Assembly 
The Twenty-seventh  World  Health  Assembly 
ADOPTS  the following  amendments  to its Rules  of Procedure  : 
Rule 23 
Add a second  paragraph,  reading  : 
Meetings  of the Committee  on Credentials  shall  be held  in private. 
Rule 24 
Add a third  paragraph,  reading  : 
Meetings  of the Committee  on Nominations  shall  be held  in private. 
Rule 51 
Delete  the existing  Rule  and  replace  by the following  : 
Proposals  and  amendments  shall  normally  be introduced  in writing  and  handed  to the Director-General, 
who shall  circulate  copies  to the delegations.  As  a general  rule,  no proposal  shall  be discussed  or put to the 
vote at any  meeting  of the Health  Assembly  unless  copies  of it have  been  circulated  to all delegations  not later 
than  the day  preceding  the meeting.  The  President  may,  however,  permit  the discussion  and  consideration  of 
such  proposals  and  amendments,  or of motions  as to procedure,  even  though  they  have  not been  circulated 
or have  only  been  circulated  the same  day. 
Delete  Rules  84 to 87 inclusive  and  Rule  89 dealing  with  the languages  of the Health  Assembly  2  and  replace 
them  by the following  : Rule 84 
Arabic,  Chinese,  English,  French,  Russian  and  Spanish  shall  be the  official  languages,  and  English, 
French,  Russian  and  Spanish  the working  languages  of the Health  Assembly. 
Rule 85 
Speeches  made  in an official  language  shall  be interpreted  into  the other  official  languages. 
Rule 86 (former  Rule  87) 
Any delegate  or any  representative  of an Associate  Member  or any  representative  of the Board  may 
speak  in a language  other  than  the official  languages.  In this  case  he shall  himself  provide  for interpretation 
into one  of the official  languages.  Interpretation  into  the other  official  languages  by interpreters  of the Secretariat  may  be based  on the interpretation  given  in the first  such  language. 
Rule 88 (former  Rule  89) 
All resolutions,  recommendations  and  other  formal  decisions  of the Health  Assembly  shall  be made 
available  in the working  languages. 
Handb.  Res.,  Vol.  I, 4.1.4;  4.1.5  Tenth  plenary  meeting,  16 May  1974 
(Committee  B,  third  report) 
