WHA27.35  Coordination  within  the United  Nations  system  : general  matters 
The Twenty-seventh  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the report  of the Director-General  on coordination  with  other  organizations  of the 
United  Nations  system  on general  matters  ； 
Having  also  reviewed  the action  taken  by the Executive  Board  at its fifty-third  session  following  its examination  of the Director-General's  report  on this  subject,  and  having  been  informed  of recent  developments  ； 
Stressing  the role  and  responsibilities  which  WHO  together  with  the other  specialized  agencies  has  in 
country  programming  exercises  undertaken  by governments  under  the aegis  of the United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP)； 
Aware  of the difficulties  encountered  in ensuring  a proper  level  of delivery  of WHO-assisted  health  programmes  funded  by UNDP, 
1. THANKS  the Director-General  for the information  provided  ； 
2. ENDORSES  the decision  taken  by the Executive  Board  in its resolution  EB53.R48  ； 
3. WELCOMES  the steps  taken  to ensure  close  cooperation  with  UNDP  at country  level  and  the efforts  under 
way to arrive  at jointly  acceptable  simplified  procedures  for the planning  and  approval  of activities  for which 
WHO  is to be the executing  agency; 
4. REQUESTS  the  Director-General  to continue  his efforts  to improve  implementation  of such  activities  ； 
5. FURTHER  REQUESTS  the Director-General  to study  the ways  by which  the Board  and  the Health  Assembly 
can be more  usefully  informed  about  UNPD-supported  activities  and  those  financed  from  other  extrabudgetary  sources  ； 
6. URGES  Member  States  to give  more  consideration  to the health  sector  within  the economic  and  social 
programmes  being  financed  by UNDP; 
7. DRAWS  THE  ATTENTION  of Member  States  to the  practical  support  which  their  administrations  must 
provide  in order  to ensure  proper  planning  and  timely  delivery  of activities  supported  by the Organization; 
8. NOTES  with  satisfaction  the action  taken  by the Director-General  in relation  to the Sahelian  drought 
and to emergency  situations  that  have  arisen  in other  areas  and  the excellent  cooperation  established  with 
the Office  of the United  Nations  Disaster  Relief  Coordinator; 
9. EXPRESSES  its gratitude  to UNICEF  and  to the World  Food  Programme  for their  continued  support  to health-related  programmes. 
Handb.  Res.,  Vol.  I, 8.1.1;  8.1.4  Thirteenth  plenary  meeting,  21 May  1974 
(Committee  B,  fourth  report) 
