RЁSОС,цТJОN DE 'L°А5$ЕIИBLЕE" MONDIALE DE LA. SANTЕ`` РЕЗОЛЮЦИЯ ВсЕмиРН©Й АССАМБЛЕИ 3ДРАВООХРАмЕМиЯ RESOLUCLON DE LA ASAMBLEO. г"9 C :D.AL DE LA SALUD 
THIRTY-FOURTH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY 
INTERNATIONAL CODE OF MARKETING OF BREASТMILK SUBSTITUTES 
The Thirty- fourth World Health Assembly, WHA34.22 21 May 1981 
Recognizing the importance of sound infant and young child nutrition for the future health and development of the child and adult; 
Recalling that breastfeeding is the only natural method of infant feeding and that it must • be actively protected and promoted in all countries; 
Convinced that governments of Member States have important responsibilities and a prime role to play in the protection and promotion of breastfeeding as a means of improving infant and young child health; 
• Aware of the direct and indirect effects of marketing practices of breastmilk substitutes on infant feeding practices; 
Convinced that the protection and promotion of infant feeding, including the regulation of the marketing of breastmilk substitutes, affect infant and young child health directly and profoundly, and are a problem of direct concern to WHO; 
Having considered the Draft International Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes prepared by the Director -General and forwarded to it by the Executive Board; 
Expressing its gratitude to the Director -General and to the Executive Director of the United Nations Children's Fund for the steps they have taken in ensuring close consultation with Member States and with all other parties concerned in the process of preparing the Draft International Code; 
Having considered the recommendation made thereon by the Executive Board at its sixty - seventh session; 
Confirming resolution WHÀ33.32, including the endorsement in their entirety of the statement and recommendations made by the joint WHO /UNICEF Meeting on Infant and Young Child Feeding held from 9 to 12 October 1979; 
Stressing that the adoption of and adherence to the International Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes is a minimum requirement and only one of several important actions required in order to protect healthy practices in respect of infant and young child feeding; 
1. ADOPTS, in the sense of Article 23 of the Constitution, the International Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes annexed to the present resolution; 
2. URGES all Member States: 
(1) to give full and unanimous support to the implementation of the recommendations made by the joint WHO /UNICEF Meeting on Infant and Young Child Feeding and of the provisions of the International Code in its entirety as an expression of the collective will of the membership of the World Health Organization; WHА34.22 page 2 
(2) to translate the International Code into national legislation, regulations or other suitable measures; 
(3) to involve all concerned social and economic sectors and all other concerned parties in the implementation of the International Code and in the observance of the provisions thereof; 
(4) to monitor the compliance with the Code; 
3. DECIDES that the follow -up to and review of the implementation of this resolution shall be undertaken by regional committees, the Executive Board and the Health Assembly in the spirit of resolution WHA33.17; 
4. REQUESTS the FAO/WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission to give full consideration, within the framework of its operational mandate, to action it might take to improve the quality standards of infant foods, and to support and promote the implementation of the International Code; 
5. REQUESTS the Director -General: 
(1) to give all possible support to Member States, as and when requested, for the implementation of the International Code, and in particular in the preparation of national legislation and other measures related thereto in accordance with operative subparagraph 6(6) of resolution WHА33.32; 
(2) to use his good offices for the continued cooperation with all parties concerned in the implementation and monitoring of the International Code at country, regional and global levels; 
(З) to report to the Thirty -sixth World Health Assembly on the status of compliance with and implementation of the Code at country, regional and global levels; 
(4) based on the conclusions of the status report, to make proposals, if necessary, for revision of the text of the Code and for the measures needed for its effective application. 
Fifteenth Plenary Meeting, 21 May 1981 А34/VR/15 • 
• • WHA34.22 page 3 
ANNEX 
INTERNATIONAL CODE OF MARKETING 
OF BREASTMILK SUBSTITUTES 
CONTENTS 
gage Preamble 3 
Article 1. Aim of the Code 5 Article 2. Scope of the Code 5 
Article 3. Definitions 5 
Article 4. Information and education 6 
Article 5. The general public and mothers 7 Article 6. Health care systems 7 Article 7. Health workers 8 Article 8. Persons employed by manufacturers and distributors 9 Article 9. Labelling 9 Article 10. Quality 9 Article 11. Implementation and monitoring 10 
The Member States of the World Health Organization: 
Affirming the right of every child and every pregnant and lactating woman to be adequately nourished as a means of attaining and maintaining health; 
Recognizing that infant malnutrition is part of the wider problems of lack of education, poverty, and social injustice; 
Recognizing that the health of infants and young children cannot be isolated from the health and nutrition of women, their socioeconomic status aid their roles as mothers; 
Conscious that breastfeeding is an unequalled way of providing ideal food for the healthy growth and development of infants; that it forms a unique biological and emotional basis for the health of both mother and child; that the anti -infective properties of breastmilk help to protect infants against disease; and that there is an important relationship between breastfeeding and child -spacing; WНАЭ4.22 page 4 Annex Recognizing that the encouragement and protection of breastfeeding is an important part of the health, nutrition and other social measures required to promote healthy growth and development of infants and young children; and that breastfeeding is an important aspect of primary health care; 
Considering that when mothers do not breastfeed, or only do so partially, there is a legitimate market for infant formula and for suitable ingredients from which to prepare it; that all these products should accordingly be made accessible to those who need them through commercial or non- commercial distribution systems; and that they should not be marketed or distributed in ways that may interfere with the protection and promotion of breastfeeding; 
Recognizing further that inappropriate feeding practices lead to infant malnutrition, morbidity and mortality in all countries, and that improper practices in the marketing of breastmilk substitutes and related products can contribute to these major public health problems; 
Convinced that it is important for infants to receive appropriate complementary foods, usually when the infant reaches four to six months of age, and that every effort should be made to use locally available foods; and convinced, nevertheless, that such complementary foods should not be used as breastmilk substitutes; 
Appreciating that there are a number of social aid economic factors affecting breast - feeding, and that, accordingly, governments should develop social support systems to protect, facilitate and encourage it, and that they should create an environment that fosters breast - feeding, provides appropriate family and community support, and protects mothers from factors that inhibit breastfeeding; Affirming that health care systems, and the health professionals and other health workers serving in them, have an essential role to play in guiding infant feeding practices, encouraging and facilitating breastfeeding, and providing objective and consistent advice to mothers and families about the superior value of breastfeeding, or, where needed, on the proper use of infant formula, whether manufactured industrially or home -prepared; Affirming further that educational systems and other social services should be involved in the protection and promotion of breastfeeding, and in the appropriate use of complementary foods; 
Aware that families, communities, women's organizations and other nongovernmental organizations have a special role to play in the protection and promotion of breastfeeding and in ensuring the support needed by pregnant women and mothers of infants and young children, whether breastfeeding or not; 
Affirming the need for governments, organizations of the United Nations system, nongovernmental organizations, experts in various related disciplines, consumer groups and industry to cooperate in activities aimed at the improvement of maternal, infant and young child health and nutrition; 
Recognizing that governments should undertake a variety of health, nutrition and other social measures to promote healthy growth and development of infants aid young children, and that this Code concerns only one aspect of these measures; 
Considering that manufacturers and distributors of breastmilk substitutes have an important and constructive role to play in relation to infant feeding, and in the promotion of the aim of this Code aid its proper implementation; Affirming that governments are called upon to take action appropriate to their social and legislative framework and their overall development objectives to give effect to the principles and aim of this Code, including the enactment of legislation, regulations or other suitable measures; • WHA34.22 page 5 Annex Believing that, in the light of the foregoing considerations, and in view of the vulnerability of infants in the early months of life and the risks involved in inappropriate feeding practices, including the unnecessary and improper use of breastmilk substitutes, the marketing of breastmilk substitutes requires special treatment, which makes usual marketing practices unsuitable for these products; 
THEREFORE: 
The Member States hereby agree the following articles which are recommended as a basis for action. 
Article 1 Aim of the Code 
The aim of this Code is to contribute to the provision of safe and adequate nutrition for infants, by the protection and promotion of breastfeeding, and by ensuring the proper use of breastmilk substitutes, when these are necessary, on the basis of adequate information and through appropriate marketing and distribution. 
Article 2 
Scope of the Code 
The Code applies to the marketing, and practices related thereto, of the following products: breastmilk substitutes, including infant formula; other milk products, foods and beverages, including bottle -fed complementary foods when marketed or otherwise represented to be suitable, with or without modification, for use as a partial or total replacement of breastmilk; feeding bottles and teats. It also applies to their quality and availability, and to information concerning their use. 
Article 3 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Code: 
" Breastmilk substitute" means any food being marketed or otherwise represented as a partial or total replacement for breastmilk, whether or not suitable for that purpose. 
"Complementary food" means any food, whether manufactured or locally prepared, suitable as a complement to breastmilk or to infant formula, when either becomes insufficient to satisfy the nutritional requirements of the infant. Such food is also commonly called "weaning food" or " breastmilk supplement ". 
"Container" means any form of packaging of products for sale as a normal retail unit, including wrappers. 
"Distributor" means a person, corporation or any other entity in the public or private sector engaged in the business (whether directly or indirectly) of marketing at the wholesale or retail level a product within the scope of this Code. A "primary distributor" is a manufacturer's sales agent, representative, national distributor or broker. WHA34.22 page 6 Annex "Health care system" 
"Health worker" 
"Infant formula" means governmental, nongovernmental or private institutions or organizations engaged, directly or indirectly, in health care for mothers, infants and pregnant women; and nurseries or child -care institutions. It also includes health workers in private practice. For the purposes of this Code, the health care system does not include pharmacies or other established sales outlets. 
means a person working in a component of such a health care system, whether professional or non- professional, including voluntary, unpaid workers. means a breastmilk substitute formulated industrially in accordance with applicable Codex Alimentarius standards, to satisfy the normal nutritional requirements of infants up to between four and six months of age, and adapted to their physiological characteristics. Infant formula may also be prepared at home, in which case it is described as "home- prepared ". 
"Label" means any tag, brand, mark, pictorial or other descriptive matter, written, printed, stencilled, marked, embossed or impressed on, or attached to, a container (see above) of any products within the scope of this Code. 
"Manufacturer" means a corporation or other entity in the public or private sector engaged in the business or function (whether directly or through an agent or through an entity controlled by or under contract with it) of manufacturing a product within the scope of this Code. 
'‚Marketing" means product promotion, distribution, selling, advertising, product public relations, and information services. 
"Marketing personnel" means any persons whose functions involve the marketing of a product or products coming within the scope of this Code. 
"Samples" means single or small quantities of a product provided without cost. 
"Supplies" means quantities of a product provided for use over an extended period, free or at a low price, for social purposes, including those provided to families in need. 
Article 4 Information and education 
4.1 Governments should have the responsibility to ensure that objective and consistent information is provided on infant and young child feeding for use by families and those involved in the field of infant and young child nutrition. This responsibility should cover either the planning, provision, design and dissemination of information, or their control. 
4.2 Informational and educational materials whether written, audio, or visual, dealing with the feeding of infants and intended to reach pregnant women and mothers of infants and young children, should include clear information on all the following points: (a) the benefits and WHA34.22 page 7 Annex superiority of breastfeeding; (b) maternal nutrition, and the preparation for and maintenance of breastfeeding; (c) the negative effect on breastfeeding of introducing partial bottle - feeding; (d) the difficulty of reversing the decision not to breastfeed; and (e) where needed, the proper use of infant formula, whether manufactured industrially or home -prepared. When such materials contain information about the use of infant formula, they should include the social and financial implications of its use; the health hazards of inappropriate foods or feeding methods; and, in particular, the health hazards of unnecessary or improper use of infant formula and other breastmilk substitutes. Such materials should not use any pictures or text which may idealize the use of breastmilk substitutes. 
4.3 Donations of informational or educational equipment or materials by manufacturers or distributors should be made only at the request and with the written approval of the appropriate government authority or within guidelines given by governments for this purpose. Such equipment or materials may bear the donating company's name or logo, but should not refer to a proprietary product that is within the scope of this Code, and should be distributed only through the health care system. 
Article 5 
The general public and mothers 
5.1 There should be no advertising or other form of promotion to the general public of products within the scope of this Code. 
5.2 Manufacturers and distributors should not provide, directly or indirectly, to pregnant women, mothers or members of their families, samples of products within the scope of this Code. 
5.3 In conformity with paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, there should be no point -of -sale advertising, giving of samples, or any other promotion device to induce sales directly to the consumer at the retail level, such as special displays, discount coupons, premiums, special sales, loss -leaders and tie -in sales, for products within the scope of this Code. This provision should not restrict the establishment of pricing policies and practices intended to provide products at lower prices on a long -term basis. 
5.4 Manufacturers and distributors should not distribute to pregnant women or mothers of infants and young children any gifts of articles or utensils which may promote the use of breastmilk substitutes or bottle -feeding. 
5.5 Marketing personnel, in their business capacity, should not seek direct or indirect contact of any kind with pregnant women or with mothers of infants and young children. 
Article 6 
Health care systems 
6.1 The health authorities in Member States should take appropriate measures to encourage and protect breastfeeding and promote the principles of this Code, and should give appropriate information and advice to health workers in regard to their responsibilities, including the information specified in Article 4.2. 
6.2 No facility of a health care system should be used for the purpose of promoting infant formula or other products within the scope of this Code. This Code does not, however, preclude the dissemination of information to health professionals as provided in Article 7.2. 
6.3 Facilities of health care systems should not be used for the display of products within the scope of this Code, for placards or posters concerning such products, or for the distribution of material provided by a manufacturer or distributor other than that specified in Article 4.3. WHA34.22 page 8 Annex 6.4 The use by the health care system of "professional service representatives ", "mothercraft nurses" or similar personnel, provided or paid for by manufacturers or distributors, should not be permitted. 
6.5 Feeding with infant formula, whether manufactured or home -prepared, should be demon- strated only by health workers, or other community workers if necessary; and only to the mothers or family members who need to use it; and the information given should include a clear explanation of the hazards of improper use. 
6.6 Donations or low -price sales to institutions or organizations of supplies of infant formula or other products within the scope of this Code, whether for use in the institutions or for distribution outside them, may be made. Such supplies should only be used or distributed for infants who have to be fed on breastmilk substitutes. If these supplies are distributed for use outside the institutions, this should be done only by the institutions or organizations concerned. Such donations or low -price sales should not be used by manufacturers or distributors as a sales inducement. 
6.7 Where donated supplies of infant formula or other products within the scope of this Code are distributed outside an institution, the institution or organization should take steps to ensure that supplies can be continued as long as the infants concerned need them. Donors, as well as institutions or organizations concerned, should bear in mind this responsibility. 
6.8 Equipment and materials, in addition to those referred to in Article 4.3, donated to a health care system may bear a company's name or logo, but should not refer to any proprietary product within the scope of this Code. 
Article 7 Health workers 
7.1 Health workers should encourage and protect breastfeeding; and those who are concerned in particular with maternal and infant nutrition should make themselves familiar with their responsibilities under this Code, including the information specified in Article 4.2 
7.2 Information provided by manufacturers and distributors to health professionals regarding products within the scope of this Code should be restricted to scientific and factual matters, and such information should not imply or create a belief that bottle - feeding is equivalent or superior to breastfeeding. It should also include the information specified in Article 4.2. 
7.3 No financial or material inducements to promote products within the scope of this Code should be offered by manufacturers or distributors to health workers or members of their families, nor should these be accepted by health workers or members of their families. 
7.4 Samples of infant formula or other products within the scope of this Code, or of equipment or utensils for their preparation or use, should not be provided to health workers except when necessary for the purpose of professional evaluation or research at the institutional level. Health workers should not give samples of infant formula to pregnant women, mothers of infants and young children, or members of their families. 
7.5 Manufacturers and distributors of products within the scope of this Code should disclose to the institution to which a recipient health worker is affiliated any contribution made to or on his behalf for fellowships, study tours, research grants, attendance at professional conferences, or the like. Similar disclosures should be made by the recipient. Article 8 
Persons employed by manufacturers and distributors WHА34.22 page 9 Annex 
8.1 In systems of sales incentives for marketing personnel, the volume of sales of products within the scope of this Code should not be included in the calculation of bonuses, nor should quotas be set specifically for sales of these products. This should not be understood to prevent the payment of bonuses based on the overall sales by a company of other products marketed by it. 
8.2 Personnel employed in marketing products within the scope of this Code should not, as part of their job responsibilities, perform educational functions in relation to pregnant women or mothers of infants and young children. This should not be understood as preventing such personnel from being used for other functions by the health care system at the request and with the written approval of the appropriate authority of the government concerned. 
Article 9 • Labelling 
9.1 Labels should be designed to provide the necessary information about the appropriate use of the product, and so as not to discourage breastfeeding. 
9.2 Manufacturers and distributors of infant formula should ensure that each container has a clear, conspicuous, and easily readable and understandable message printed on it, or on a label which cannot readily become separated from it, in an appropriate language, which includes all the following points: (a) the words "Important Notice" or their equivalent; (b) a statement of the superiority of breastfeeding; (c) a statement that the product should be used only on the advice of a health worker as to the need for its use and the proper method of use; (d) instructions for appropriate preparation, and a warning against the health hazards of inappropriate preparation. Neither the container nor the label should have pictures of infants, nor should they have other pictures or text which may idealize the use of infant formula. They may, however, have graphics for easy identification of the product as a breastmilk substitute and for illustrating methods of preparation. The terms "humanized ", "maternalized" or similar terms should not be used. Inserts giving additional information about the product and its proper use, subject to the above conditions, may be included in the package or retail unit. When labels give instructions for modifying a product into infant formula, the above should apply. 
9.3 Food products within the scope of this Code, marketed for infant feeding, which do not meet all the requirements of an infant formula, but which can be modified to do so, should carry on the label a warning that the unmodified product should not be the sole source of nourishment of an infant. Since sweetened condensed milk is not suitable for infant feeding, nor for use as a main ingredient of infant formula, its label should not contain purported instructions on how to modify it for that purpose. 
9.4 The label of food products within the scope of this Code should also state all the following points: (a) the ingredients used; (b) the composition analysis of the product; (c) the storage conditions required; and (d) the batch number and the date before which the product is to be consumed, taking into account the climatic and storage conditions of the country concerned. 
Article 10 
Quality 
10.1 The quality of products is an essential element for the protection of the health of infants and therefore should be of a high recognized standard. 
10.2 Food products within the scope of this Code should, when sold or otherwise distributed, meet applicable standards recommended by the Codex Alimentarius Commission and also the Codex Code of Hygienic Practices for Foods for Infants arid Children. WHA34.22 page 10 Annex Article 11 
Implementation and monitoring 
11.1 Governments should take action to give effect to the principles and aim of this Code, as appropriate to their social and legislative framework, including the adoption of national legislation, regulations or other suitable measures. For this purpose, governments should seek, when necessary, the cooperation of WHO, UNICEF and other agencies of the United Nations system. National policies and measures, including laws and regulations, which are adopted to give effect to the principles and aim of this Code should be publicly stated, and should apply on the same basis to all those involved in the manufacture and marketing of products within the scope of this Code. 
11.2 Monitoring the application of this Code lies with governments acting individually, and collectively through the World Health Organization as provided in paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article. The manufacturers and distributors of products within the scope of this Code, and appropriate nongovernmental organizations, professional groups, and consumer organizations should collaborate with governments to this end. 
11.3 Independently of any other measures taken for implementation of this Code, manufac- turers and distributors of products within the scope of this Code should regard themselves responsible for monitoring their marketing practices according to the principles and aim of this Code, and for taking steps to ensure that their conduct at every level conforms to them. 11.4 Nongovernmental organizations, professional groups, institutions, and individuals concerned should have the responsibility of drawing the attention of manufacturers or distributors to activities which are incompatible with the principles and aim of this Code, so that appropriate action can be taken. The appropriate governmental authority should also be informed. 
11.5 Manufacturers and primary distributors of products within the scope of this Code should apprise each member of their marketing personnel of the Code and of their responsibilities under it. 
11.6 In accordance with Article 62 of the Constitution of the World Health Organization, Member States shall communicate annually to the Director -General information on action taken to give effect to the principles and aim of this Code. 
11.7 The Director -General shall report in even years to the World Health Assembly on the status of implementation of the Code; and shall, on request, provide technical support to Member States preparing national legislation or regulations, or taking other appropriate measures in implementation and furtherance of the principles and aim of this Code. 