WHA30.53  Expanded  Programme  on Immunization 
The Thirtieth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the Director-General's  progress  report  on the Expanded  Programme  on Immunization, 
and taken  cognizance  of the funds  allocated  to the  combined  smallpox  eradication  and  expanded  immunization  programme  contained  in the proposed  programme  budget  for 1978  and  1979，1 
1. NOTES  the continuing  efforts  made  to develop  the programme  at country,  regional,  and  global  levels  and 
the progress  accomplished  in pursuance  of resolutions  WHA27.57  and  WHA29.63; 
2. APPROVES  the programme  objectives  and  policy  statement  presented  in the above  progress  report  and 
particularly  emphasizes  the importance  of the social  and  technical  desiderata  as inherent  elements  of effective 
and well-managed  immunization  programmes; 
3. RECOMMENDS  that  Member  States  formulate  specific  plans  for  the  development  or maintenance  of 
immunization  activities  on a long-term  basis; 
4. URGES  governments  and  appropriate  scientific  institutions  to intensify  scientific  research  in respect  of 
the development  of better  and  more  stable  vaccines,  the  improvement  of vaccination  techniques,  including 
combined  vaccination,  and  the  diagnosis,  prophylaxis  and  treatment  of post-vaccination  complications; 
5. URGES  governments  and  agencies  in A position  to contribute  funds  or their  equivalent  in equipment  and 
supplies  to consider  the  limited  resources  available  under  the  regular  budget  of the Organization  and  the 
continuous  nature  of the programme,  and  to provide  maximum  longterm  support  through  the  Voluntary 
Fund  for  Health  Promotion  (Special  Account  for  the  Expanded  Programme  on Immunization)  or on a 
bilateral  basis,  to ensure  country  programming  on a five-  to ten-year  basis; 
6. RECOMMENDS  that  the  Organization  intensify  its activities  in coordinating,  with  the  United  Nations 
Children's  Fund  and  donor  sources,  the procurement  and  distribution  of vaccines  used  in the programme  and 
in ensuring  that  these  vaccines  meet  minimum  standards  of potency  and  stability; 
7. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to collaborate  closely  with  Member  States  in research  and  health  education,  and  in developing,  through  training  and  field  support,  the  management  capabilities  of senior  and 
middle-level  supervisory  personnel  in order  to establish  effective  and  continuing  systems  of vaccine  delivery 
that will  lead  to complete  immunization  coverages,  particularly  of the rural  populations  ； 
8. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to keep  the Health  Assembly  regularly  informed  of the progress  made 
in the programme,  particularly  with  regard  to the  number  of countries  having  participated  therein  and  its 
coverage  of children. 
Handb.  Res.,  Vol.  II (2nd  ed.),  1.8.3.2 Fourteenth  plenary  meeting,  19 May  1977 
(Committee  B,  seventh  report) 
