 
 
 
FIFTY-SIXTH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA56.23 Agenda item 14.19 28 May 2003 
 
Joint FAO/WHO evaluation of the work of the 
Codex Alimentarius Commission 
 
The Fifty-sixth World Health Assembly, 
Recalling resolution WHA40.20 on the Codex Alimentarius Commission and resolution 
WHA53.15 on food safety; 
Having considered the report on the joint F AO/WHO evaluation of the Codex Alimentarius 
Commission and other FAO and WHO work on food standards;1 
Acknowledging with appreciation the statement of  the Codex Alimentarius Commission on the 
outcome of the joint FAO/WHO evaluation annexed to the present resolution; 
Welcoming the recommendation to give higher pr iority to setting science-based standards for 
food safety, nutrition-related issues and health; 
Noting with satisfaction the excellent collabora tion between WHO and FAO in the area of food 
safety and nutrition; 
Aware that the rise in the global distribution of food is linked to an increased need for 
internationally agreed assessments and guide lines related to food safety and nutrition; 
Recognizing that one of the prerequisites fo r economic development is a safe food production 
system for both domestic and export markets based  on regulatory frameworks protecting consumers’ 
health; 
Conscious of the need for full participation of developing countries in setting globally relevant 
standards; 
Emphasizing the lead responsibility of WHO, in  collaboration with FAO, in providing sound 
scientific assessments of hazards in food and nutri tion as a basis for managing risk at national and 
international levels; 
                                                      
1 Document A56/34. WHA56.23 
 
 
  
 
 
2 Stressing the urgent need to reinforce the particip ation of the health sector in standard-setting 
activities related to food in order to promote and protect consumers’ health, 
1. ENDORSES WHO’s increased direct involvement  in the Codex Alimentarius Commission and 
an enhanced capacity within  WHO for risk assessment; 
2. URGES Member States: 
(1) to participate actively in international st andard-setting in the framework of the Codex 
Alimentarius Commission, especially in the area of food safety and nutrition; 
(2) to make full use of Codex standards for the protection of human health throughout the 
food chain, including assistance with making h ealthy choices regarding nutrition and diet; 
(3) to stimulate collaboration between all sectors involved at national level in setting 
standards based on the Codex Alimentarius related to food safety and nutrition, with particular 
focus on the health sector and fu lly involving all stakeholders; 
(4) to facilitate the participation of nationa l experts in international standard-setting 
activities; 
3. INVITES the regional committees to review regi onal policies and strategies for strengthening 
capacity in the areas of standard-setting for food saf ety and of nutrition information, in collaboration 
with FAO; 
4. CALLS ON donors to increase funding for WHO’s activities related to the setting of standards 
for food, with special attention to least developed countries; 
5. REQUESTS the Director-General: 
(1) to support the development and implem entation of an action plan to address the 
recommendations in the Codex Evaluation Report, a nd, in collaboration with FAO, to consider 
means to improve the efficiency of the Code x standard-setting process by meeting the unique 
governance needs of Codex within the overall structure of WHO and FAO; 
(2) to strengthen WHO’s role: 
(a) in the management of the Codex Alimentarius Commission and to give a higher 
profile to the Commission and related work throughout the Organization; 
(b) in complementing the wo rk of the Codex Alimentarius Commission with other 
relevant WHO activities in the areas of food saf ety and nutrition, with special attention to 
issues mandated in World Health Assembly r esolutions and to the International Health 
Regulations; 
(c) in risk assessment, including through th e system of joint FAO/WHO expert bodies 
and consultations and through a coordinating function in WHO; 
(d) in supporting the capacity of food-safety systems to protect human health 
throughout the food chain;   WHA56.23 
 
 
  
 
 
  3  (e) in supporting analysis of links betw een data on foodborne disease and foodborne 
contamination; 
(f) in collaboration with FAO, in providing special support to developing countries for 
generating data for development of gl obal Codex Alimentarius standards; 
(3) to provide support to Member States, pa rticularly developing and least developed 
countries, in strengthening capacity in the above areas; 
(4) to stimulate the establishment of networ ks between national a nd regional food-safety 
regulatory authorities and particularly at country level; 
(5) to continue to foster collaboration with  FAO, including a more coordinated approach 
between WHO and FAO to capacity-building, esp ecially within the framework of the Joint 
FAO/WHO Food Standards Programme; 
(6) to reallocate resources for WHO’s activities related to the setting of food standards based 
on the Codex Alimentarius with special attention to least developed countries. 
 WHA56.23 
 
 
  
 
 
4 ANNEX 
STATEMENT OF THE CODEX AL IMENTARIUS COMMISSION ON 
THE OUTCOME OF THE JOINT FAO/WHO EVALUATION OF 
THE CODEX ALIMENTARIUS AND OTHER FAO AND WHO  
WORK ON FOOD STANDARDS 
1. The Codex Alimentarius Commission, having  considered the report and recommendations of 
the Joint FAO/WHO Evaluation of the Codex Alimen tarius and Other FAO and WHO Work on Food 
Standards , expressed its appreciation to the parent Or ganizations for having initiated the Evaluation 
and ensuring that it was carried out in a consultative,  efficient and effective manner. It also expressed 
its appreciation to the Evaluation Team and Expert Panel for their excellent report, the depth of the 
analysis and the comprehensive proposals and recommendations contained therein. 
2. The Commission noted with satisfaction the find ing of the Evaluation that its food standards 
had a very high importance to Members as a vital component of food control systems designed to 
protect consumer health and to ensure fair practic es in the food trade. It endorsed the view that 
standards were a fundamental prerequisite in cons umer protection but had to be looked at in the 
context of the total system throughout the food chain, especially for food safety. 
3. The Commission recalled that Codex standards were used as references for Member Nations in 
relation to their obligations under the WTO Agre ement on Technical Barriers to Trade and the 
Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phyt osanitary Measures. In this regard, it recognized 
that many Member Nations with less developed ec onomies or with economies in  transition were able 
to use Codex standards directly as a basis for domest ic legislation and standards setting in conformity 
with these Agreements. It noted that this was partic ularly true when standards were based on global 
data including those derived from developing countries. 
4. The Commission supported the overall thrust  of the Evaluation report and expressed its 
commitment to the implementation  of strategies that would meet the objectives of the 
recommendations contained therein. It strongly agreed that these recommendations should be reviewed expeditiously. The Commission noted that  since the 1991 Joint FAO/WHO Conference on 
Food Standards, Chemicals in Food and Food Trad e, significant changes had been made in the 
Commission’s priorities and programmes with in creased emphasis on food safety issues. This 
emphasis had resulted in an increased output of h ealth-related standards a nd was now being extended 
to the whole food chain; this process would continue to be developed.  
5. Noting the Evaluation’s recommendations concerning the Commission’s mandate, the 
Commission was of the opinion that its existing mandate  to protect consumers’ health and to ensure 
fair practices in the food trade continued to be appr opriate but might be discussed in the future. Within 
this mandate, the Commission emphasized that its first priority would be the development of standards 
having an impact on consumer health and safety. 
6. In order to maintain the strong support from all Member Nations and stakeholders, the 
Commission agreed  that in their response to the Eval uation, the Commission and its parent 
Organizations should work towards: 
greater efficiency and effectiveness in the deve lopment of Codex standards, whilst maintaining 
transparency and inclusiveness and procedural cons istency in the process of their development;  Annex  WHA56.23 
 
 
  
 
 
  5  increased participation of developing Member  Nations and Member Nations in economic 
transition in the work of the Codex Alimentarius Commission throughout the standards 
development process;  
greater usefulness of Codex standards to Member Nations in terms of relevance to their needs 
and timeliness; 
strengthening of the scientific base for risk analysis, including food safety risk assessment to 
improve the efficiency and effectiveness in  providing expert scientific advice to the 
Commission and Member Nations and to improve risk communication; and  
more effective capacity building for the deve lopment of national food control systems.  
7. The Commission agreed that it should have great er independence, within the overall structure of 
FAO and WHO, for proposing and executing its work programme and budget , once approved by the 
two parent organizations.  
8. The Commission concurred with the views expr essed in the Evaluation Report that the Codex 
Secretariat  was hard working, efficient and member-ori ented but overworked and with insufficient 
resources to support the present activities of Codex. It strongly supported the recommendation that the 
Secretariat be expanded and that the seniority  and composition of its staff should match the 
Commission’s increased requirements. 
9. On the matter of expert advice  to Codex, the Commission agreed fully with the view that this 
was a very important element to all Member Nations and to the Commission itself. It expressed the 
view that there needed to be sufficient capacity within the parent Organizations to ensure that 
scientific advice was provided on a timely basis. It also  agreed that this work needed to have greater 
identity within the Organizations, stronger links to Codex priorities, and internal coordination as well 
as significantly increased resources. Its independence from external influences and its transparency 
need to be further reinforced within FAO/WHO. The Co mmission stated that there should also be 
greater distinction between the function of risk ass essment undertaken by experts and that of risk 
management undertaken by Codex committees, while no ting the linkages that needed to exist between 
these functions. The Commission emphasized that the pr ovision of expert scientific advice was a joint 
responsibility of FAO and WHO and should continue to be so. It strongly recommended that WHO 
markedly increase its contribution to health ri sk assessment carried out by FAO/WHO expert 
committees and FAO/WHO expert consultations. It al so recommended that FAO strengthen its input 
in areas reflecting its responsibility and exper tise. The Commission welcomed the statement by 
Dr Brundtland in her opening remarks to the pr esent session that FAO and WHO would prepare for 
and convene as an immediate priority, the cons ultation requested by the Codex Alimentarius 
Commission at its 24th Session1 on strengthening scientific support for Codex decision-making. 
10. In the area of capacity building , the Commission welcomed the va luable initiatives described 
in the report including the Standards and Trade Devel opment Facility (STDF) operated by the WTO in 
collaboration with the World Bank, FAO, WHO, OI E, and in particular the new FAO/WHO Trust 
Fund to enable effective participation in Code x. It called upon FAO and WHO to undertake a major 
effort to mobilize extrabudgetary funds and foster coordinated bilateral assistance in capacity building. 
It also called for a more coordinated approach  for capacity building between FAO and WHO and 
requested the parent bodies to urgently analyse thei r existing means of providing capacity building and 
inform the Codex Alimentarius Commission on how they will improve coordination and distribution 
of work drawing on their mutual strengths and synergies. 
                                                      
1 ALINORM 01/41, paragraph 61. WHA56.23  Annex 
 
 
  
 
 
6 11. The Commission called upon FAO and WHO  to provide additional Regular Programme 
resources, supplemented with extrabudgetary reso urces where necessary, to strengthen Codex and 
Codex-related work throughout the two Organizations. 
12. The Commission called upon Member Governments  to support the follow-up to the 
Evaluation process including through their statements  made and positions taken in the World Health 
Assembly and the Council and Conference of FAO. 
13. The Commission reiterated its commitment  to pursue with all speed full consideration of the 
recommendations addressed to it in the Ev aluation report and in this regard: 
 
• Invited Member Nations  and interested international organizations to submit written comments to 
the Secretariat; 
• Requested the Secretariat to anal yse the comments dealing with the Codex Committee structures 
and their mandates  and to provide options for consideration by the Commission at its next 
Regular Session; 
• Requested the Secretariat to analyse the co mments dealing with the functions of the Executive 
Committee , and to provide options for consideration by the Commission at its next Regular 
Session; 
• Requested the Secretariat to analyse comments dealing with standards management  and the 
procedures for standards development , including the establishment of priorities recommended by 
developing Member Nations, and recommend strate gies for the early implementation of more 
efficient and effective processes, providing options for consideration by the Commission at its next Regular Session; 
• Requested the Secretariat to identify a strategy for consideration by the Commission at its next 
Regular Session on the implementation of the reco mmendations dealing with the revision of the 
Rules of Procedure  and other internal procedures; and 
• Requested the Secretariat to analyse the comme nts on those recommendations in the Evaluation 
Report not covered by the above and to  provide options on how to proceed. 
 
Tenth plenary meeting, 28 May 2003 
A56/VR/10 
 
=     =     = 