 
 
 
FIFTY-SIXTH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA56.24 Agenda item 14.15 28 May 2003 
 
Implementing the recommendations of the 
World report on violence and health  
 
The Fifty-sixth World Health Assembly, 
Recalling resolution WHA49.25, which declared violence a leading worldwide public health 
problem, and resolution WHA50.19, which endorsed and requested continue d development of the 
WHO plan of action for a science-based public hea lth approach to violence prevention and health; 
Noting that a meeting of bodies of the United Nations system on collaboration for the 
prevention of interpersonal violence (Geneva, 15- 16 November 2001) invited WHO to facilitate a 
better coordinated response to interpersonal violence, as a r esult of which WHO published the Guide 
to United Nations resources and activities fo r the prevention of interpersonal violence ;1 
Recalling that WHO is a core partner, with UNICEF and the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights, of a working group to support the United Nations Study on Violence against Children, and that WHO is active in the prevention of violence against young people, 
women, the disabled and the elderly; 
Recognizing that the prevention of violence is a prerequisite of human security and dignity and 
that urgent action by governments is needed to  prevent all forms of violence and reduce their 
consequences for health and for socioeconomic development; 
Noting that the World report on violence and health
2 provides an up-to-date description of the 
impact of violence on public health, reviews its de terminants and effective interventions, and makes 
recommendations for public health policy and programmes, 
1. TAKES NOTE of the nine recommendations for prevention of violence contained in the World 
report on violence and health and set out in the Annex to this resolution, and encourages Member 
States to consider adopting them; 
                                                      
1 Guide to United Nations resources and activities  for the prevention of interpersonal violence,  Geneva, World 
Health Organization, 2002. 
2 World report on violence and health , Geneva, World Health Organization, 2002. WHA56.24 
 
 
  
 
 
2 2. URGES Member States to promote the World report on violence and health and actively to 
make use of the conclusions and recommendations of the report to improve activities to prevent and 
expose instances of violence, and to provide medica l, psychological, social and legal assistance and 
rehabilitation for persons suffering as a result of violence; 
3. ENCOURAGES all Member States that have not al ready done so to appoint within the ministry 
of health a focal point for the prevention of violence; 
4. ENCOURAGES Member States to prepare in due time a report on violence and violence 
prevention that describes the magnitude of the probl em, the risk factors, current efforts to prevent 
violence, and future action to encourage a multisectoral response; 
5. REQUESTS the Director-General: 
(1) to cooperate with Member States in est ablishing science-based public health policies and 
programmes for the implementation of measures to prevent violence and to mitigate its consequences at individual and societal levels; 
(2) to encourage urgent research to support  evidence-based approaches for prevention of 
violence and mitigation of its consequences at indivi dual, family and societal levels, particularly 
research on multilevel risk factors for violen ce, and evaluation of model prevention 
programmes; 
(3) in collaboration with other organizations  of the United Nations system and other 
international agencies, to continue work on in tegrating a science-based public health approach 
to violence prevention into other major global prevention initiatives; 
(4) using the resources available and be nefiting from opportunities for cooperation: 
(a) to support and coordinate efforts to  draw up or revise normative documents and 
guidelines for prevention policy and programmes, as appropriate; 
(b) to provide technical support for strengthening of trauma and care services to 
survivors or victims of violence; 
(c) to continue advocating the adoption and expansion of a public health response to 
all forms of violence; 
(d) to establish networks to promote the inte grated prevention of violence and injuries; 
6. FURTHER REQUESTS the Director-General to report to the Fifty-eighth World Health 
Assembly, through the Executive Board, on progress towards implementing the World report on 
violence and health . 
 
   WHA56.24 
 
 
  
 
 
  3  ANNEX 
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE PREVENTION OF VIOLENCE 
1. Create, implement and monitor a national action plan for violence prevention. 
2. Enhance capacity for collecting data on violence. 
3. Define priorities for, and support research on, the causes, consequences, costs and prevention of 
violence. 
4. Promote primary prevention responses. 
5. Strengthen responses for victims of violence. 
6. Integrate violence prevention into social and educational policies, and thereby promote gender 
and social equality. 
7. Increase collaboration and exchange of information on violence prevention. 
8. Promote and monitor adherence to international treaties, laws and other mechanisms to protect 
human rights. 
9. Seek practical, internationally agreed respon ses to the global drugs trade and the global arms 
trade. 
Tenth plenary meeting, 28 May 2003 
A56/VR/10 
 
=     =     = 