 
 
 
SIXTY-FIFTH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA65.2 
Agenda item 4 23 May 2012 
Contract of the Director-General 1 
 
The Sixty-fifth World Health Assembly, 
I 
Pursuant to Article 31 of the Constitution and Rule  107 of the Rules of Procedure of the World 
Health Assembly, 
APPROVES the contract establishing the terms and co nditions of appointment, salary and other 
emoluments for the post of Director-General; 
II 
Pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure of t he World Health Assembly,  
AUTHORIZES the President of the Sixty-fifth World H ealth Assembly to sign this contract in 
the name of the Organization. 
Seventh plenary meeting, 23 May 2012  
A65/VR/7 
  
                                                      
1 See Annex. WHA65.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 ANNEX 
CONTRACT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL 
 
 
THIS CONTRACT  is made this twenty-third day of May of the year t wo thousand and twelve 
between the World Health Organization (hereinafter called the Organization) of the one part and 
Dr Margaret Fu Chun Chan Fung (hereinafter called t he Director-General) of the other part. 
WHEREAS 
(1) It is provided by Article 31 of the Constitutio n of the Organization that the Director- 
General of the Organization shall be appointed by t he World Health Assembly (hereinafter called the 
Health Assembly) on the nomination of the Executive  Board (hereinafter called the Board) on such 
terms as the Health Assembly may decide; and 
(2) The Director-General has been duly nominated by  the Board and appointed by the Health 
Assembly at its meeting held on the twenty-third da y of May of the year two thousand and twelve for 
a period of five years. 
NOW THIS CONTRACT WITNESSETH  and it is hereby agreed as follows, 
I. (1) The Director-General shall serve from the fi rst day of July of the year two thousand and 
twelve until the thirtieth day of June of the year two thousand and seventeen, on which date the 
appointment and this Contract shall terminate. 
(2) Subject to the authority of the Board, the Dire ctor-General shall exercise the functions of 
chief technical and administrative officer of the O rganization and shall perform such duties as may be  
specified in the Constitution and in the rules of t he Organization and/or as may be assigned to her by  
the Health Assembly or the Board. 
(3) The Director-General shall be subject to the St aff Regulations of the Organization in so 
far as they may be applicable to her. In particular  she shall not hold any other administrative post, and 
shall not receive emoluments from any outside sourc es in respect of activities relating to the 
Organization.  She shall not engage in business or in any employment or activity that would interfere 
with her duties in the Organization. 
(4) The Director-General, during the term of this a ppointment, shall enjoy all the privileges 
and immunities in keeping with the office by virtue  of the Constitution of the Organization and any 
relevant arrangements already in force or to be con cluded in the future. 
(5) The Director-General may at any time give six m onths’ notice of resignation in writing to 
the Board, which is authorized to accept such resig nation on behalf of the Health Assembly; in which 
case, upon the expiration of the said period of not ice, the Director-General shall cease to hold the 
appointment and this Contract shall terminate. 
(6) The Health Assembly shall have the right, on th e proposal of the Board and after hearing 
the Director-General and subject to at least six mo nths’ notice in writing, to terminate this Contract  for 
reasons of exceptional gravity likely to prejudice the interests of the Organization.   WHA65.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3 II. (1) As from the first day of July of the year t wo thousand and twelve the Director-General 
shall receive from the Organization an annual salar y of two hundred and thirty-two thousand eight 
hundred and fifty-nine United States dollars, befor e staff assessment, resulting in a net salary (to b e 
paid monthly) of  one hundred and seventy-six thous and five hundred and one United States dollars 
per annum at the dependency rate (one hundred and f ifty-six thousand nine hundred and sixty four 
United States dollars at the single rate) or its eq uivalent in such other currency as may be mutually 
agreed between the parties to this Contract. 
(2) In addition to the normal adjustments and allow ances authorized to staff members under 
the Staff Rules, the Director-General shall receive  an annual representation allowance of twenty-one 
thousand United States dollars or its equivalent in  such other currency as may be mutually agreed 
between the parties to this Contract, to be paid mo nthly commencing on the first day of July of the 
year two thousand and twelve. The representation al lowance shall be used at her discretion entirely in  
respect of representation in connection with her of ficial duties. She shall be entitled to such 
reimbursable allowances as travel allowances and re moval costs on appointment, on subsequent 
change of official station, on termination of appoi ntment, or on official travel and home leave travel . 
III. The terms of the present Contract relating to rates of salary and representation allowance are 
subject to review and adjustment by the Health Asse mbly, on the proposal of the Board and after 
consultation with the Director-General, in order to  bring them into conformity with any provision 
regarding the conditions of employment of staff mem bers which the Health Assembly may decide to 
apply to staff members already in the service. 
IV. If any question of interpretation or any disput e arises concerning this Contract that is not settl ed 
by negotiation or agreement, the matter shall be re ferred for final decision to the competent tribunal  
provided for in the Staff Rules. 
WHEREUNTO  we have set our hands the day and year first above  written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(signed)    Dr M.Chan     (signed)    Professor T. N’Dri-Yoman 
Director-General             President of the World  Health Assembly 
 
 
=     =     = 