 
 
 
SIXTY-FIFTH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA65.22 
Agenda item 13.14 26 May 2012 
Follow up of the report of the Consultative Expert 
Working Group on Research and Development: 
Financing and Coordination 
 
The Sixty-fifth World Health Assembly, 
Having considered the report of the Consultative Ex pert Working Group on Research and 
Development: Financing and Coordination (CEWG);1 
Recalling resolution WHA63.28 which requested the D irector-General, inter alia, to establish 
the CEWG in order to take forward the work of the E xpert Working Group earlier established under 
resolution WHA61.21, and to submit the final report  to the Sixty-fifth World Health Assembly; 
Further recalling resolutions WHA59.24, WHA61.21 an d WHA62.16, 
1. WELCOMES  the analysis of the CEWG report and expresses its a ppreciation to the Chair, 
Vice-Chair and all the members of the Working Group  for their work; 
2. URGES Member States: 2 
(1) to hold national level consultations among all relevant stakeholders, in order to discuss 
the CEWG report and other relevant analyses, result ing in concrete proposals and actions; 
(2) to participate actively in the meetings at regi onal and global level referred to in this 
resolution; 
(3) to implement, where feasible, in their respecti ve countries, proposals and actions 
identified by national consultations; 
(4) to establish and/or strengthen mechanisms for i mproved coordination of research and 
development (R&D) 3 in collaboration with WHO and other relevant partn ers, as appropriate; 
                                                      
1 Documents A65/24; Annex and A65/24 Corr.1. 
2 And, where applicable, regional economic integrati on organizations. 
3 In the context of this resolution R&D shall refer t o health research and development related to Type I I and Type III 
diseases and the specific research and development needs of developing countries in relation to Type I  diseases. WHA65.22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 3. CALLS UPON  Member States, 1 the private sector, academic institutions and nong overnmental 
organizations to increase investments in health res earch and development related to Type II and Type 
III diseases and the specific research and developm ent needs of developing countries in relation to 
Type I diseases;  
4. REQUESTS regional committees to discuss at their  2012 meetings the report of the CEWG in 
the context of the implementation of the global str ategy and plan of action on public health, innovati on 
and intellectual property 2 in order to contribute to concrete proposals and a ctions;  
5. REQUESTS  the Director-General to hold an open-ended meeting of Member States 1 that will 
thoroughly analyse the report and the feasibility o f the recommendations proposed by the CEWG, 
taking into account, as appropriate, related studie s as well as the results from national consultation s 
and regional committee discussions, and will develo p proposals or options relating to (1) research 
coordination, (2) financing and (3) monitoring of R &D expenditures, 3 to be presented under a 
substantive item dedicated to the follow up of the CEWG report at the Sixty-sixth World Health 
Assembly, through the Executive Board at its 132nd session. 
Tenth plenary meeting, 26 May 2012 
A65/VR/10 
=     =     = 
                                                      
1 And, where applicable, regional economic integrati on organizations.  
2 Resolutions WHA61.21 and WHA62.16. 
3 As defined in the Global strategy and plan of acti on on public health, innovation and intellectual pr operty. 