 
 
 
SIXTY-FIFTH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA65.19 
Agenda item 13.13 26 May 2012 
Substandard/spurious/falsely-labelled/falsified/ 
counterfeit medical products 
 
The Sixty-fifth World Health Assembly, 
Having considered the report of the Working Group o f Member States on 
Substandard/Spurious/Falsely-Labelled/Falsified/Cou nterfeit Medical Products and its 
recommendations; 1 
Welcoming the outcome of the sessions of the Workin g Group of Member States on 
Substandard/Spurious/Falsely-Labelled/Falsified/Cou nterfeit Medical Products; 
Reaffirming the fundamental role of WHO in ensuring  the availability of quality, safe and 
efficacious medical products; 
Recognizing that many people in the world lack acce ss to quality, safe, efficacious and 
affordable medicines and that such access is an imp ortant part of a health system; 
Recognizing the importance of ensuring that combati ng “substandard/spurious/falselylabelled/falsified/counterfeit medical products” do es not result in hindering the availability of 
legitimate generic medicines; 
Recognizing the need, as expressed in the Rio Polit ical Declaration on the Social Determinants 
of Health (2011), 2 to promote access to affordable, safe, efficacious  and quality medicines, including 
through the full implementation of the WHO global s trategy and plan of action on public health, 
innovation and intellectual property; 
Acknowledging the need for improving access to affo rdable, quality, safe and efficacious 
medicines as an important element in the effort to prevent and control medicines with compromised 
quality, safety and efficacy and in the decrease of  “substandard/spurious/falselylabelled/falsified/counterfeit medical products”; 
Taking note of resolution 20/6 of the United Nation s Commission on Crime Prevention and 
Criminal Justice entitled “Countering fraudulent me dicines, in particular their trafficking”; 
Expressing concern regarding the lack of sufficient  financing for WHO’s work in the area of 
quality, safety and efficacy of medicines; 
                                                      
1 Document A65/23. 
2 See subparagraph 11.2 (xii). WHA65.19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Recognizing the need to enhance support to national  and regional regulatory authorities to 
promote the availability of quality, safe and effic acious medical products, 
1. REAFFIRMS the fundamental role of WHO in ensurin g the quality, safety and efficacy of 
medical products; in promoting access to affordable , quality, safe and efficacious medicines; and in 
supporting national drug regulatory authorities in this area, in particular in developing countries an d 
least-developed countries; 
2. REITERATES that WHO should continue to focus on and intensify its measures to make 
medical products more affordable, strengthening nat ional regulatory authorities and health systems 
that include national medicine policies, health ris k management systems, sustainable financing, human 
resource development and reliable procurement and s upply systems; and to enhance and support work 
on prequalification and promotion of generics, and efforts in rational selection and use of medical 
products. In each of these areas, WHO’s function sh ould be: information sharing and awareness 
creation; norms and standards and technical assista nce to countries on country situation assessment; 
national policy development; and capacity building,  supporting product development and domestic 
production; 
3. FURTHER REITERATES that WHO should increase its efforts to support Member States in 
strengthening national and regional regulatory infr astructure and capacity; 
4. DECIDES to establish a new Member State 1 mechanism for international collaboration among 
Member States, from a public health perspective, ex cluding trade and intellectual property 
considerations, regarding “substandard/spurious/fal sely-labelled/falsified/counterfeit medical 
products” in accordance with the goals, objectives and terms of reference annexed to the present 
resolution; 2 
5. FURTHER DECIDES to review the Member State mecha nism referred to in paragraph 4 after 
three years of operation; 
6. URGES Member States 1 to: 
(1) on a voluntary basis, participate in and collab orate with the Member State mechanism 
referred to in paragraph 4; 
(2) provide sufficient financial resources to stren gthen the work of the Secretariat in this area; 
7. REQUESTS the Director-General:  
(1) to support the Member State mechanism referred to in paragraph 4; 
(2) to support Member States in building capacity t o prevent and control 
“substandard/spurious/falsely-labelled/falsified/co unterfeit medical products”. 
 
                                                      
1 And, where applicable, regional economic integrati on organizations. 
2 Attached as Annex.   WHA65.19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3 ANNEX 
Member State mechanism on substandard/spurious/fals ely-labelled/ 
falsified/counterfeit medical products 
Goal, objectives and terms of reference 
General goal 
In order to protect public health and promote acces s to affordable, safe, efficacious and quality 
medical products, promote, through effective collab oration among Member States and the Secretariat, 
the prevention and control of substandard/spurious/ falsely-labelled/falsified/counterfeit medical 
products 1 and associated activities.  
Objectives 
(1) To identify major needs and challenges and make  policy recommendations, and develop tools in 
the area of prevention, detection methodologies and  control of “substandard/spurious/falselylabelled/falsified/counterfeit medical products” in  order to strengthen national and regional capaciti es. 
(2) To strengthen national and regional capacities in order to ensure the integrity of the supply 
chain. 
(3) To exchange experiences, lessons learnt, best p ractices, and information on ongoing activities at 
national, regional and global levels. 
(4) To identify actions, activities and behaviours that result in “substandard/spurious/falselylabelled/falsified/counterfeit medical products” an d make recommendations, including for improving 
the quality, safety and efficacy of medical product s. 
(5) To strengthen regulatory capacity and quality c ontrol laboratories at national and regional 
levels, in particular for developing countries and least developed countries. 
(6) To collaborate with and contribute to the work of other areas of WHO that address access to 
quality, safe, efficacious and affordable medical p roducts, including, but not limited to, the supply and 
use of generic medical products, which should compl ement measures for the prevention and control of 
“substandard/spurious/falsely-labelled/falsified/co unterfeit medical products”. 
(7) To facilitate consultation, cooperation and col laboration with relevant stakeholders in a 
transparent and coordinated manner, including regio nal and other global efforts, from a public health 
perspective. 
(8) To promote cooperation and collaboration on sur veillance and monitoring of 
“substandard/spurious/falsely-labelled/falsified/co unterfeit medical products”. 
                                                      
1 The Member State mechanism shall use the term “sub standard/spurious/falsely-labelled/falsified/counte rfeit  medical 
products” u ntil a definition has been endorsed by the governin g bodies of WHO. WHA65.19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 (9) To further develop definitions of “substandard/ spurious/falsely-labelled/falsified/counterfeit 
medical products” that focus on the protection of p ublic health. 
Structure 
(1) The Member State mechanism will be open to all Member States. 1 The Member State 
mechanism should include expertise in national heal th and medical products regulatory matters. 
(2) The Member State mechanism may establish subsid iary working groups from among its 
members to consider and make recommendations on spe cific issues. 
(3) Regional groups will provide input into the Mem ber State mechanism as appropriate. 
(4) The Member State mechanism shall make use of ex isting WHO structures. 
Meetings 
(1) The Member State mechanism should meet not less  than once a year and in additional sessions 
as needed. 
(2) The default venue for the Member State mechanis m, and its subsidiary working groups, will be 
Geneva. Meetings may, however, be held from time to  time outside Geneva, taking into account 
regional distribution, overall cost and cost-sharin g, and relevance to the agenda.  
Relations with other stakeholders and experts 
(1) As needed, the Member State mechanism should se ek expert advice on specific topics, 
following standard WHO procedures for expert groups . 
(2) As needed, the Member State mechanism will invi te other stakeholders to collaborate and 
consult with the group on specific topics.  
Reporting and review 
(1) The functioning of the Member State mechanism s hall be reviewed by the World Health 
Assembly after three years of its operation. 
(2) The Member State mechanism shall submit a repor t to the Health Assembly through the 
Executive Board on progress and any recommendations  annually as a substantive item for the first 
three years and every two years thereafter. 
Transparency and conflict of interest 
(1) The Member State mechanism, including all invit ed experts, should operate in a fully inclusive 
and transparent manner.  
                                                      
1 And, where applicable, regional economic integrati on organizations.   WHA65.19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  5 (2) Possible conflicts of interest shall be disclos ed and managed in accordance with the policies and 
practice of WHO. 
Tenth plenary meeting, 26 May 2012  
A65/VR/10 
 
=     =     = 