  
 
 
SEVENTIETH  WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY  WHA 70.3 
Agenda item 4.3 23 May 20 17 
Contract of the Director -General  
The Seventieth  World Health Assembly,  
I 
Pursuant to Article 31 of the Constitution and Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure of the World Health 
Assembly,  
APPROVES the contract establishing the terms and conditions of appointment, salary and other 
emoluments for the post of Director -General, as amended;1 
II 
Pursuant to Rule 110  of the Rules of Procedure of the World Health Assembly,  
AUTHORIZES the President of the Seventieth World Health Assembly to sign this contract in the 
name of the Organization.  
 
 
                                                           
1 See Annex.  WHA70.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 ANNEX  
CONTRACT OF THE DIRECTOR -GENERAL  
THIS CONTRACT  is made this twenty -third day of May of the year two thousand and 
seventeen between the World Health Organization (hereinafter called the Organization) of the one part 
and Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (hereinafter called the Director -General) of the othe r part.  
WHEREAS  
(1) It is provided by Article 31 of the Constitution of the Organization that the Director - 
General of the Organization shall be appointed by the World Health Assembly (hereinafter called the 
Health Assembly) on the nomination of the Execut ive Board (hereinafter called the Board) on such 
terms as the Health Assembly may decide; and  
(2) The Director -General has been duly appointed by the Health Assembly at its meeting held 
on the twenty -third day of May of the year two thousand and seventeen  for a period of five years.  
NOW THIS CONTRACT WITNESSETH  and it is hereby agreed as follows,  
I. (1) The Director -General shall serve from the first day of July of the year two thousand and 
seventeen until the thirtieth day of June of the year two thousa nd and twenty -two, on which date the 
appointment and this Contract shall terminate.  
(2) Subject to the authority of the Board, the Director -General shall exercise the functions of 
chief technical and administrative officer of the Organization and shall per form such duties as may be 
specified in the Constitution and in the rules of the Organization and/or as may be assigned to him by 
the Health Assembly or the Board.  
(3) The Director -General fully commits to the responsible management and appropriate 
steward ship of WHO’s resources, including financial resources, human resources and physical 
resources, in an efficient and effective manner to achieve the Organization’s objectives; an ethical 
culture, so that all Secretariat decisions and actions are informed by  accountability, transparency, 
integrity, and respect; equitable geographical representation and gender balance in staff appointments 
and in accordance with Article 35 of the Constitution of the World Health Organization; follow -up of 
recommendations from the Organization’s internal and external audits, and timeliness and 
transparency of official documentation.  
(4) The Director -General shall be subject to the Staff Regulations of the Organization in so 
far as they may be applicable to him. In particular he shall not hold any other administrative post, and 
shall not receive emoluments from any outside sources in respect of activities relating to the 
Organization. He shall not engage in business or in any employment or activity that would interfere 
with his du ties in the Organization.  Annex   WHA70.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3 (5) The Director -General, during the term of this appointment, shall enjoy all the privileges 
and immunities in keeping with the office by virtue of the Constitution of the Organization and any 
relevant arrangements already in fo rce or to be concluded in the future.  
(6) The Director -General may at any time give six months’ notice of resignation in writing to 
the Board, which is authorized to accept such resignation on behalf of the Health Assembly; in which 
case, upon the expiration of the said period of notice, the Director -General shall cease to hold the 
appointment and this Contract shall terminate.  
(7) The Health Assembly shall have the right, on the proposal of the Board and after hearing 
the Director -General and subje ct to at least six months’ notice in writing, to terminate this Contract for 
reasons of exceptional gravity likely to prejudice the interests of the Organization.  
II. (1) As from the first day of July of the year two thousand and seventeen the Director -General 
shall receive from the Organization an annual salary of two hundred and forty -one thousand, two 
hundred and seventy -six United States dollars, before staff assessment, resulting in a net salary (to be 
paid monthly) of one hundred and seventy -two thou sand, and sixty -nine United States dollars per 
annum or its equivalent in such other currency as may be mutually agreed between the parties to this 
Contract.  
(2) In addition to the normal adjustments and allowances authorized to staff members under 
the Staff Rules, the Director -General shall receive an annual representation allowance of twenty -one 
thousand United States dollars or its equivalent in such other curre ncy as may be mutually agreed 
between the parties to this Contract, to be paid monthly commencing on the first day of July of the 
year two thousand and seventeen. The representation allowance shall be used at his discretion entirely 
in respect of represent ation in connection with his official duties. He shall be entitled to such 
reimbursable allowances as travel allowances and removal costs on appointment, on subsequent 
change of official station, on termination of appointment, or on official travel and hom e leave travel.  
(3) The Director -General shall not participate in the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund 
and shall instead receive as a monthly supplement the contribution that the Organization would have 
paid each month to the Pension Fund had the D irector -General been a participant. Should the Director General decide before the start of his appointment on the first day of July of the year two thousand and 
seventeen that he would like to participate in the Pension Fund, then he and the Organization w ill 
contribute to the Pension Fund in the normal manner and there will be no monthly supplement paid 
directly to him.  
III. The terms of the present Contract relating to rates of salary and representation allowance are 
subject to review and adjustment by th e Health Assembly, on the proposal of the Board and after 
consultation with the Director -General, in order to bring them into conformity with any provision 
regarding the conditions of employment of staff members which the Health Assembly may decide to 
apply to staff members already in the service.  WHA70.3   Annex  
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 IV. If any question of interpretation or any dispute arises concerning this Contract that is not settled 
by negotiation or agreement, the matter shall be referred for final decision to the competent tribunal 
provi ded for in the Staff Rules.  
WHEREUNTO  we have set our hands the da y and year first above written.  
....................................................  ....................................................  
Director -General  President of the Seventieth  
World H ealth Assembly  
Fifth plenary meeting, 23 May 2017  
A70/VR/5  
=     =     =  