The Twenty-ninth World Health Assembly, Having considered the Director-General's progress report on the expanded programme on immunization, 1. NOTES with satisfaction the efforts made to develop the programme in pursuance of resolution WHA27.57 and the first progress accomplished; 2. EMPHASIZES again the high priority tobe given to the programme with A view to ensuring its rapid expansion and meeting the needs of the Member States and their national immunization programmes; 3. RECORDS its appreciation of the important role that the United Nations Children's Fund is playing, jointly with WHO, in supporting national immunization programmes 4. THANKS the governments and the agencies that have already contributed to the programme and urges those that are in a position to do so to contribute funds, or their equivalent in equipment and supplies, to the Voluntary Fund for Health Promotion (Special Account for the Expanded Programme on Immunization), or to make sufficiently long-term contributions ona bilateral basis 5. COMMENDS the Director-General's intention of merging the smallpox eradication programme and the expanded programme on immunization during the next two years with a view to using the many years' experience of smallpox control and at the same timetaking into account the considerable differences, peculiarities and complexities of immunization against other infections; 6. RECOMMENDS to the Director-General the carrying-out of special research to evaluate the effectiveness of immunization in countries with differing climatic and socioeconomic conditions, to develop qualitatively new, more effective and heat-stable vaccines against the six diseases included in the programme and also other diseases against which vaccines have not yet been developed, and to study the validity of currently accepted contraindications to vaccinations; 7. INVITES the Director-General to workout a strategy fora detailed immunization programme ona sound scientific basis which would be inharmony with the aims of WHO's Sixth and subsequent General Programmes of Work and have the prospect of being implemented by Member States continuously over along period, particular account being taken of the programmes on primary health care; 8. REQUESTS the Director-General to keep the World Health Assembly regularly informed of the progress made. Handb. Res., Vol. IT, 1.8; 7.1.10.1 Thirteenth plenary meeting, 20 May 1976 (Committee A, fifth report)