The Twenty-ninth World Health Assembly ADOPTS the following amendments and supplements to its Rules of Procedure : To follow Rule 36, add new Rule as follows : To facilitate the conduct of its business, amain committee may designate an additional vicechairman ad interim if its chairman or vice-chairman is not available. Rule 57. Add footnote as follows : For description of the concept of a point of order seepage Insert second appendix to Rules of Procedure as follows : Description of the concept of a point of order: {a) A point of order is basically an intervention directed to the presiding officer, requesting him to make use of some power inherent in his office or specifically given him under the Rules of Procedure. It may, for example, relate to the manner in which the debate is conducted, to the maintenance of order, to the observance of the Rules of Procedure, or to the way in which presiding officers exercise the powers conferred upon them by the Rules. Under a point of order, a delegate ora representative of an Associate Member may request the presiding officer to apply a certain Rule of Procedure or he may question the way in which the officer applies the Rule. Thus, within the scope of the Rules of Procedure, delegates or representatives are enabled to direct the attention of the presiding officer to violations or misapplications of the Rules by other delegates or representatives orby the presiding officer himself. A point of order has precedence over any other matter, including procedural motions (Rules 57 and 62). (6) Points of order raised underRule 57 involve questions necessitating a ruling by the presiding officer, subject to possible appeal. They are therefore distinct from the procedural motions provided for in Rules 59 to 62, which can be decided only by a vote and on which more than one motion maybe entertained at the same time, Rule 62 laying down the precedence of such motions. They are also distinct from requests for information or clarification, or from remarks relating to material arrangements (seating, interpretation system, temperature of the room), documents, translations, etc., whichwhile they may have tobe dealt with by the presiding officerdo not require rulings from him. However, in established practice, a delegate ora representative of an Associate Member intending to submit a procedural motion or to seek information or clarification often rises toa point of order as a means of obtaining the floor. The latter usage, which is based on practical grounds, should not be confused with the raising of points of order underRule 57. (c) UnderRule 57 a point of order must be immediately decided by the presiding officer inaccordance with the Rules of Procedure any appeal arising therefrom must also be put immediately to the vote. It follows that, as a general rule: (i) Neither a point of order, nor any appeal arising from a ruling thereon, is debatable; (ii) No point of order on the same ora different subject can be permitted until the initial point of order and any appeal arising therefrom have been disposed of. Nevertheless, both the presiding officer and delegations may request information or clarification regarding a point of order. In addition, the presiding officer may, if he considers it necessary, request an expression of views from delegations ona point of order before giving his ruling; in the exceptional cases in which this practice is resorted to, the presiding officer should terminate the exchange of views and give his ruling as soon as he is ready to announce that ruling. (d) Rule 57 provides that a delegate ora representative of an Associate Member rising toa point of order may not speak on the substance of the matter under discussion. Consequently, the purely procedural nature of points of order calls for brevity. The presiding officer is responsible for ensuring that statements made ona point of order are inconformity with the present description. To follow Rule 57, add new Rule as follows : The right of reply shall be accorded by the President to any delegate or representative of an Associate Member who requests it. Delegates and representatives of Associate Members should in exercising this right attempt tobe as brief as possible and preferably deliver their statements at the end of the meeting at which this right is requested. To follow Rule 74, add new Ride as follows : Before the voting has begun or after the voting has been completed, a delegate or representative of an Associate Member may make a brief statement, consisting solely of an explanation of vote. A sponsor of a proposal shall not speak in explanation of vote thereon, except if it has been amended. Rule 77. Replace by the following : Elections shall normally beheld by secret ballot. Subject to the provisions of Rule 107and in the absence of any objection, the Health Assembly may decide to proceed without taking a ballot on an agreed candidate or list of candidates. Where a ballot is required, two tellers appointed by the President from among the delegations present shall assist in the counting of votes. Rules 84 to 88, title heading. Add to existing footnote the following : The Twenty-eighth World Health Assembly, in resolution WHA28.33, decided to consider the progressive implementation of the use of Chinese as a working language of the Health Assembly and the Executive Board. Rule 84. Replace by the following : Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish shall be both the official and the working languages of the Health Assembly. Handb. Res., Vol. IT, 4.1.4; Vol. I 4.1.5 Tenth plenary meeting, 17 May 1976 (Committee B, third report)