WHA3.63  Programme  of Publications 
The Third  World  Health  Assembly, 
In view  of the fundamental  importance  of the programme  of publications  of the Organization,  considered 
not only  as a statutory  obligation  inherited  from  previous  international  organizations,  but also  as an activity 
particularly  favourable  to the effectiveness  and  prestige  of WHO  ; 
Considering  that  the time  has come,  two  years  after  the final  establishment  of the Organization,  to proceed 
to a general  examination  of the results  obtained  and  to determine  the future  direction  of the programme  of 
publications, 
1. NOTES  the results  achieved  up till now,  despite  indisputable  difficulties  especially  of a financial  and  material 
nature  ; 
2. APPROVES  the programme  of publications  contained  in the Proposed  Programme  and  Budget  Estimates  for 
1951,7  3 on the  understanding  that  it will  be amended  in accordance  with  the principles  enunciated  in the 
annex  to this  resolution  ; 
3. REQUESTS  the Director-General 
(1) to bear  in mind,  subject  to budgetary  limitations,  as concerns  the development  of the activities  of 
the Organization  in this  field,  the principles  enunciated  in the annex  to this  resolution  from  the dual 
viewpoint  of the structure  and  frequency  of the various  publications, 
(2) to take  all measures  capable  of ensuring  the quality  of the publications  in the different  languages 
employed, 
(3) to submit  to the Executive  Board  and  the Fourth  World  Health  Assembly  a special  report  on the 
measures  adopted  in application  of the present  resolution  ; 
4. REQUESTS  the Executive  Board  to submit  its observations  and  comments  on this  report  to the Fourth 
World  Health  Assembly  ; 
5. DRAWS  the  attention  of Member  States  to the importance  of the strict  application  of Article  63 of the 
Constitution,  and 
6. RECOMMENDS  that  they  adopt  adequate  measures  in this  connexion  within  the framework  of their  national 
health-administrations. 
Annex 
PRINCIPLES  WHICH  SHOULD  GOVERN  THE  EXPANSION  OF  THE  PROGRAMME  OF  PUBLICATIONS 
1. The  Bulletin  of the World  Health  Organization  is the fundamental  publication  of the Organization  ; texts  to be 
included  therein  should  consequently  be chosen  on the grounds  of high  technical  or scientific  quality  combined 
with as wide  an international  appeal  as possible. 
The Bulletin  should  include  a bibliographical  section,  comprising  not only  references,  but also  abstracts  of 
original  documents. 
The Bulletin  should  appear  monthly  ; this  rhythm  of publication  should  be put  into  practice  as soon  as 
possible,  in principle  from  1952. 
2. The  International  Digest  of Health  Legislation  should  comprise  complete  documentation  of as recent  a date 
as possible  on the national  health  laws  and  regulations  "...  considered  to be of international  importance  ",74 
It should  be issued  not only  bound,  but also  as separate  sheets  and  fascicles  enabling  classification  by subject 
and by State  to be carried  out. 
According  to their  importance,  the texts  in the Digest  should  be either  reproduced  verbatim,  indicated  only 
by a reference,  briefly  abstracted  or partially  cited. 
In addition  to the table  of contents,  the Digest  should  contain  a classified  index  arranging  the text  according 
to subject. 
The Digest  should  appear  every  three  months. 
3. The  Chronicle  of the World  Health  Organization  should  keep  to the role  of publicity  and  general  information for which  it was  originally  intended. (Seventh  report  of the  Committee  on  Programme adopted  at seventh  plenary  meetting,  25 May  1950) [A3/R/127] 
