The Tenth World Health Assembly, Having considered resolution EB19.R27 on accommodation for the Regional Office for the Western Pacific, adopted by the Executive Board at its nineteenth session ; Having considered the report of the Director-General1 and the exchange of communications between the Director-General and the Government of the Philippines on this subject; Cognizant of the urgent need for improved accommodation for the Regional Office for the Western Pacific; Recognizing that the envisaged new building would provide some office space for the United Nations and the other specialized agencies stationed in Manila; Considering that subsequent to the nineteenth session of the Executive Board the Government of the Philippines has amended its offer; and Considering further that certain provisions of this amended offer still remain too restrictive, I. 1. ACCEPTS, subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 below, the offer of the Government of the Philippines (i) to grant to the Organization the free use of the land on which the new building is tobe erected; and (ii) to contribute as an outright donation P. 500 000 for the construction of the building; 2. DECIDES that this acceptance is subject to the Organization being accorded satisfactory conditions of occupancy and to the following particular condition being met : The Organization to receive from the Government of the Philippines the undertaking that, if the building is reassigned to the Government, the Organization be equitably compensated on the basis of the book value of the building; 3. REQUESTS the Director-General to negotiate with the Government of the Philippines to obtain the satisfactory conditions of occupancy referred to in paragraph 2; and 4. REQUESTS the Director-General, in consultation with the Chairman of the Executive Board, and after the satisfactory conclusion of the negotiations requested in paragraph 3, to execute an agreement with the Government relating to the new accommodation; II. 1. AUTHORIZES the establishment of a building fund tobe maintained notwithstanding Financial Regulation 4.3 until completion of the construction project; 2. DECIDES to credit to the fund the contribution of the Government of the Philippines and any voluntary contributions towards the cost of construction of the building made by Member States in response to the invitation in paragraph 3 of resolution EB19.R27; 3. AUTHORIZES the Director-General to advance as needed from the Working Capital Fund such amounts as maybe necessary to meet the cost of the construction not covered by the contributions credited under paragraph 2 above up toa maximum of $250 000, and to credit such advances to the building fund ; and 4. APPROVES the Director-General's plan for reimbursing the Working Capital Fund for the advances made under the provisions of paragraph II.3. Eleventh plenary meeting, 22 May 1957 (section I of the fourth report of the Committee on Administration, Finance and Legal Matters)