世界術生大t决；議 
RÉSOLUTION  DE  L'ASSEMBLÉE  MONDIALE  DE  LA  SANTÉ 
.....  .+....'-...-...•'..,  •  '  •  . •  ：•：. . . .  . .....'.  ‘  “  .  - .V .... , ••；.•：;....  .. . -.•;：•：；'л, • , ......  .— «..‘.¿-. ...  ....... 
РЕЗОЛЮЦИЯ  ВСЕМИРНОЙ  АССАМБЛЕИ  ЗДРАВООХРАНЕНИЯ 
RESOLUCION  DE  LA  ASAMBLEA  MUNDIAL  DE  ЬА  SALUD 
FORTY-EIGHTH  WORLD  HEALTH  ASSEMBLY 
Agenda  ítem  22.1 WHA48.15 
12 May  1995 
WHO  response  to global  change 
The Forty-eighth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Recalling  the  requests  and  recommendations  of the Forty-seventh  World  Health  Assembly  to the 
Executive  Board  and  the Director-General  in its resolution  WHA47.6  on WHO  response  to global  change; 
Having  considered  the progress  report  by the Director-General  contained  in document  A48/23; 
Having  also  considered  the Executive  Board's  decision  on the subject; 
Welcoming  the steps  taken  since  the Forty-seventh  World  Health  Assembly  to implement  fiirther  the 
recommendations  on global  change; 
Recognizing  the difficulties  faced  by the Organization  in adapting  to the needs  of global  change; 
Convinced  that  reform  should  permeate  the Organization  at all levels  and  in all regions  without  delay, 
and that  it should  remain  an integral  part  of WHO's  management  culture  once  action  has  been  taken  on all 
47 recommendations; 
Considering  that  WHO's  staff  are its most  important  asset,  and  that  an effective  personnel  policy  is 
essential  to the effective  implementation  of reform, 
1. WELCOMES  the action  of the Director-General  and  his staff  in their  continuing  implementation  of the 
comprehensive  plan  for managerial  and  administrative  reform  endorsed  by the Health  Assembly; 
2. REQUESTS  the Director-General: 
(1) to  accelerate  and  sustain  the work  of the development  teams  created  to carry  forward  the process 
of WHO  reform,  in particular  those  dealing  with  WHO's  policy  and  mission,  WHO's  personnel  policy 
and WHO  country  offices; 
(2) to  strengthen  the structural  capacity  at WHO  headquarters  to ensure  that  reform  permeates  all 
levels  of the Organization  and  that  the reform  process  receives  due  priority  and  becomes  an integral 
part of WHO's  management  culture; 
(3) to  report  regularly  to the Executive  Board  on progress  and  any  obstacles  encountered  in the 
process  of WHO  reform; 
WHA48.15 
(4) to  report  to the Forty-ninth  World  Health  Assembly  on further  progress  made  in implementation 
of reform  throughout  WHO; 
3. REQUESTS  the Regional  Directors  to pursue  vigorously  the implementation  of reform  as well  as to 
report  regularly  to the Executive  Board  on progress  and  any  obstacles  encountered  in the implementation  of 
reform  in their  regions; 
4. REQUESTS  the Executive  Board  to continue  to monitor  progress  in reform  and  advise  the DirectorGeneral  on measures  to overcome  any  obstacles  encountered. 
Twelfth  plenary  meeting,  12 May  1995 
A48/VR/12 
