WHA12.39  Amendments  to the  Rules  of Procedure  of the  World  Health  Assembly 
The Twelfth  World  Health  Assembly 
ADOPTS  the  following  amendments  to its Rules  of Procedure:  2 
Rule 33 
The main  committees  of the Health  Assembly  [shall  establish  at each  session]  shall  be: 
(a) the  Committee  on  Programme  and  Budget; 
(b) the  Committee  on  Administration,  Finance  and  Legal  Matters. 
In addition  to these  two  main  committees,  the  Health  Assembly  may  establish  such  other  main 
committees  as it may  consider  necessary,  [and] 
The Health  Assembly,  after  consideration  of the recommendations  of the Board  and  the General 
Committee,  shall  allocate  to such  main  committees  appropriate  items  on the agenda. 
The chairmen  of these  main  committees  shall  be elected  by the Health  Assembly  after  consideration of the  report  of the  Committee  on Nominations. 
Rule 62 
When  an amendment  to a proposal  is moved,  the amendment  shall  be voted  on first.  When  two 
or more  amendments  to a proposal  are moved,  the Health  Assembly  shall  first  vote  on the amendment 
deemed  by the President  to be furthest  removed  in substance  from  the original  proposal,  and  then 
on the amendment  next  removed  therefrom,  and  so on, until  all the amendments  have  been  put  to 
the vote.  If one  or more  amendments  are adopted,  the amended  proposal  shall  then  be voted  upon. 
If an amendment  to a proposal  has  been  accepted  by the original  proposer,  such  an amendment  shall 
be deemed  to be an integral  part  of the original  proposal  and  no separate  vote  shall  be required  thereon. 
A motion  is considered  an amendment  to a proposal  if it merely  adds  to, deletes  from  or revises  part 
of that  proposal.  A motion  which  constitutes  a substitution  for a proposal  shall  be considered  as 
a proposal. 
Rule 65 
When  a proposal  has  been  adopted  or rejected,  it may  not  be reconsidered  at the same  session 
unless  the Health  Assembly,  by a two-thirds  majority  of the Members  present  and  voting,  so decides. 
Permission  to speak  on a motion  to reconsider  shall  be accorded  only  to two  speakers  opposing  the 
motion,  after  which  it shall  immediately  be put to a vote.  The  correction  of a clerical  or arithmetical 
error  in any  document  concerning  a proposal  which  has  already  been  adopted  shall  not  be considered 
as requiring  the  reopening  of the debate  on such  proposal  by a two-thirds  majority  vote. 
Eleventh  plenary  meeting,  28 May  1959  (section  1 of 
the fourth  report  of the Committee  on  Administration, 
Finance  and  Legal  Matters) 
