WHA12.15 Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account 
The Twelfth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the report  of the Director-General  on the Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account;  1 
Having  noted  that  funds  are not  yet  available  to finance  WHO  malaria  eradication  operations  in 
1960  and  the  following  years; 
Realizing  that,  following  the  Eighth  World  Health  Assembly's  request  (resolution  WHA8.30)  to 
governments  to intensify  plans  of nation-wide  malaria  control,  many  of the malaria-stricken  countries 
have  already  embarked  upon  eradication  programmes  and  invested  and  committed  considerable  sums 
for that  purpose; 
Considering  that  lack  of sufficient  funds  in the Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account  stands  in the 
way of achieving  the  ultimate  goal  of malaria  eradication;  and 
Recognizing  the  responsibility  of the  World  Health  Assembly  for  the justified  expectations  of the 
malarious  countries  as to the  World  Health  Organization's  continued  assistance  based  on the  Eighth 
World  Health  Assembly's  decision  (resolution  WHA8.30)  that  the  World  Health  Organization  should 
" take  the  initiative,  provide  technical  advice,  and  encourage  research  and  co-ordination  of resources 
in the  implementation  of a programme  having  as its ultimate  objective  the world-wide  eradication  of 
malaria  ", 
1. NOTES  with  regret  the lack  of adequate  response  to requests  for contributions  to the Malaria  Eradication 
Special  Account; 
2. EXPRESSES  its concern  over  the present  position  of the Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account; 
3. ENDORSES  fully  the action  taken  by the  Executive  Board  and  the  Director-General  as described  in 
the Director-General's  report;  1 
4. EXPRESSES  its appreciation  for  the substantial  efforts  made  by the Director-General  to obtain  funds 
for the  Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account; 
5. REQUESTS  the  Executive  Board  and  the  Director-General  to continue  their  efforts  to obtain,  from 
all possible  sources,  sufficient  funds  to finance  the  malaria  eradication  programme; 
6. THANKS  the  Member  governments  and  Associate  Members  which  have  already  contributed  to the 
Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account,  and  invites  them  to increase  the level  of their  contributions; 
7. URGES  Member  governments  and  Associate  Members  which  have  not  yet contributed  to the Malaria 
Eradication  Special  Account  to make  every  effort  to do so; 
8. INVITES  foundations,  industry,  labour  organizations,  institutions  and  individuals  to join  with  the 
World  Health  Organization  in its efforts  to eradicate  malaria,  and  to that  end  to contribute  to the Malaria 
Eradication  Special  Account; 
9. REQUESTS  the Executive  Board  to examine  the position  of the Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account 
at its twenty-fifth  session  and,  should  contributions  not  be sufficiently  forthcoming,  to study  and  recommend  measures  to be taken  by the Thirteenth  World  Health  Assembly  to ensure  the continued  financing 
of WHO's  assistance  to the  malaria  eradication  programme;  and 
10. REQUESTS  the  Director-General  to submit  a report  to the  Thirteenth  World  Health  Assembly  on 
developments  in regard  to the  Malaria  Eradication  Special  Account. 
Ninth  plenary  meeting,  22  May  1959  (section  5 of 
the second  report  of the Committee  on Administration, 
Finance  and  Legal  Matters) 
