WHA12.48  Environmental  Sanitation 
The Twelfth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the report  of the Director-General1  on the work  and  achievements  of the Organization  in assisting  governments  in the field  of environmental  sanitation,  together  with  his proposals  for 
a future  programme; 
Recognizing  that  safe  and  adequate  supplies  of water  to inhabitants  of communities  constitute  an 
important  measure  for  the protection  and  improvement  of health  and  are  indispensable  for  economic 
and social  development; 
Recognizing  that  the provision  of community  water  supplies  depends  upon  the closely  co-ordinated 
efforts  of engineering,  financial  and  administrative  personnel; 
Considering  that  a primary  deterrent  to the early  construction  of community  water  supplies  on an 
adequate  scale  is the difficulty  in financing,  and  that  ministries  of health  are not  generally  in a position 
independently  to develop  schemes  for  financing  of such  works;  and 
Considering  that  some  governments  may  wish  to make  funds  available  to the World  Health  Organization  to provide  advisory  services  to governments  in community  water  supply  programmes  in addition 
to the  work  financed  from  the  regular  budget  of the  World  Health  Organization, 
I. 1.  ENDORSES  the principles  and  programmes  as set forth  in general  terms  in the report  of the DirectorGeneral;  and 
2. REQUESTS  the  Director-General  to co-operate  with  Member  States  in projects  to provide  adequate 
and safe  supplies  of water  to inhabitants  of their  communities,  and,  furthermore,  to continue  his study 
of ways  and  means  of rendering  assistance,  including  an investigation  of existing  international  loan 
or other  funds  which  might  be available  for  investment  in such  facilities; 
II. RECOMMENDS  to Member  States: 
(a) that  priority  be given  in national  programmes  to the  provision  of safe  and  adequate  water 
supplies  for communities; 
(b) that,  wherever  necessary,  national  or provincial  water  boards  be established  and  given  authority 
to deal  with  the various  legal,  administrative  and  fiscal  responsibilities  involved  in such  a programme; 
(c) that  all available  national  and  local  resources  of money,  materials  and  services  contributory 
to such  a programme  be mobilized; 
(id) that  within  each  country  requiring  such  a facility  a revolving  fund  be established  to provide  loans 
for water  supply  development  to local  agencies  of governments;  and 
(e) that  full  advantage  be taken  of existing  international  loan  funds; 
III. 1. AUTHORIZES  the Executive  Board  to accept  any  contributions  which  may  be offered  for the purpose 
of providing  assistance  to governments  in planning,  preparing  for and  providing  other  technical  assistance 
in the development  of community  water  supply;  the Executive  Board  may  delegate  this  authority  to the 
Chairman  of the  Board; 
2. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to establish  under  Financial  Regulations  6.6 and  6.7 a special  account 
for the  purposes  set forth  in paragraph  III.  1 above; 
3. DECIDES  that  the funds  in the special  account  shall  be available  for incurring  obligations  for the purposes set out  in paragraph  III.  1 of this  resolution  and  that  notwithstanding  Financial  Regulation  4.3,  the unexpended  balance  of the account  shall  be carried  forward  from  one  financial  year  to the next;  and 
4. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to present  the operations  financed,  or planned  to be financed,  from  the 
special  account  separately  in the annual  programme  and  budget  estimates  and  to include  the  operations 
of the  account  separately  in the  annual  financial  report; 
IV. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to make  adequate  provision  in future  programmes  and  budgets  to 
allow  the Organization  to maintain  leadership  in a co-ordinated  global  programme  of community  water 
supply  and  to provide  the necessary  technical  and  advisory  services  to governments; 
V. INVITES  all multilateral  and  bilateral  agencies  having  an interest  in this  field  to co-operate  with  the 
World  Health  Organization  in carrying  out  a global  water  supply  programme. 
Eleventh  plenary  meeting,  28 May  1959  (section  1 of 
the fourth  report  of the  Committee  on  Programme 
and Budget) 
