The Thirtieth World Health Assembly, Having considered the Director-General's report on the smallpox eradication programme Recognizing that, while smallpox is now reported from only a single country in north-eastern Africa, continuing smallpox transmission in that area represents a considerable danger for adjacent countries owing to nomadic population movements; Stressing the importance of establishing data in respect of previously endemic areas, for review by an independent group of experts, in order to document the absence of smallpox transmission fora period of two years or more; Noting that 18 laboratories are currently registered as retaining stocks of variola virus or specimens from smallpox cases Noting also that the Organization's vaccine reserves for use in an unforeseen emergency are not yet at a level sufficient to permit the vaccination of 200 to 300 million persons as envisaged in resolution WHA29.54; 1. CONGRATULATES Afghanistan, Bhutan, India, Nepal, and Pakistan, where smallpox eradication has been certified during the last six months; 2. REQUESTS governments and laboratories to continue to cooperate in preparing the international register of laboratories retaining stocks of variola virus or specimens from smallpox cases, and to ensure that, inaccordance with the recommendation of the Committee on International Surveillance of Communicable Diseases endorsed by the Executive Board in resolution EB59.R28, these stocks and specimens are retained only by WHO collaborating centres under conditions ensuring maximum safety 3. REQUESTS all Member States to continue to give financial support to the smallpox eradication programme, either through the Special Account for Smallpox Eradication of the Voluntary Fund for Health Promotion or ona bilateral basis, in order that the last known smallpox foci can be eliminated as rapidly as possible; 4. REQUESTS all Member States to consider their vaccination programmes and requirements and whether any unnecessary vaccination requirements can be reduced 5. URGES all governments to make full use of the expertise of international and national personnel with experience in smallpox surveillance and in containment measures as maybe required effectively to interrupt transmission of the disease and to prepare for independent assessment in those countries where the eradication of smallpox has not yet been certified 6. INVITES Member States to continue to donate smallpox vaccine to the Voluntary Fund for Health Promotion until reserves sufficient to vaccinate 200 to 300 million persons have been built up; 7. REQUESTS the Director-General to report to the Thirty-first World Health Assembly on the progress made in this programme during the next 12 months. Handb. Res., Vol. II (2nd ed.)1.8.3.1 Fourteenth plenary meeting, 19 May 1977 (Committee B seventh report)