The Seventh World Health Assembly, Having considered the first report of the Committee on International Quarantine, the second report of the Expert Committee on Yellow Fever and the report of its Working Party, established to deal with these reports I. 1. ADOPTS the report of the Working Party ; 2. DECIDES that no amendments to the provisions of the International Sanitary Regulations should be made at this stage ; 3. REFERS the International Sanitary Regulations to the Committee on International Quarantine with a view toa revision of the yellow-fever provisions of these Regulations ; 4. REQUESTS the Director-General to take the action necessary to enable this review tobe carried outby the Eighth World Health Assembly ; 5. RECOMMENDS that interested governments should not apply paragraph 2 of Article 70 of the Regulations pending the decision of the Eighth World Health Assembly concerning changes in the provisions with regard to yellow fever tobe proposed toit by a future Committee on International Quarantine assisted by yellow-fever experts (these recommendations will not affect local areas in which yellow fever, should it occur, can only be transmitted by Ades aegypti, provided the terms of paragraph 2 of Article 70 apply to such areas, it being understood that health administrations will vaccinate against yellow fever all persons proceeding from endemic zones and arriving in such local areas on an international journey toa yellow-fever receptive area) ; 6. DECIDES that the delineation of yellow-fever receptive areas shall be as shown in the report of the Working Party ; II. DECIDES that the Regulations for the Committee on International Quarantine shall be as shown in the first report of the Committee on International Quarantine, as amended by the report of the Working Party, and that these Regulations shall enter into force forthwith ; III. REQUESTS the Director-General to prepare an up-to-date statement showing the position of countries and territories under the International Sanitary Regulations, tobe submitted to each World Health Assembly for information ; IV. 1. AUTHORIZES the publication, preferably in a single volume of: (a) the first annual report of the Director-General on the working of the International Sanitary Regulations, (b) suggestions for improvement and proposed amendments to the text of the International Sanitary Regulations, (c) the first Report of the Committee on International Quarantine and its annexes, (d) the resolution of this Assembly (WHA7.56) ; and 2. REQUESTS the Director-General to transmit this document to all governments ; V. 1. NOTES the report of the working party on the preparation of a manual on the hygiene and sanitation of airports ; and 2. APPROVES the recommendation of the Working Party that resolution WHA4.82 and resolutions EB8.R22 and EB9.R49 be interpreted to mean that the manual shall serve as recommendations for the guidance of health administrations in the operation of airports open to international traffic, and that the word " standards " be interpreted in this sense. Handb. Res., 2nd ed., 1.8.2 Adopted at the tenth plenary meeting, 20 May 1954