The Seventh World Health Assembly, Having decided that the effective working budget for 1955 should be $811 100 less than that proposed by the Director-General in his programme and budget estimates ; Considering that it is essential to provide, within the reduced effective working budget, for the statutory increases of the Organization, the further development of certain regional offices and the further steps envisaged towards making Spanish a full working language ; Realizing that the Technical Assistance funds which may ultimately become available to the World Health Organization in 1955 will not beknown until late in 1954 ; Appreciative of the generous financial assistance provided in the past by the UNICEF Executive Board in meeting the costs of international health personnel which could not be provided by the World Health Organization within its limited financial resources, 1. DECIDES that the reduction in 1955 of $811 100 should be effected in Appropriation Section 5 ; 2. REQUESTS the Director-General to defer the implementation of new 1955 projects under the regular budget to the extent necessary to effect the total reduction of $811 100, maintaining a satisfactory balance between major subject headings ; 3. NOTES with satisfaction that the UNICEF Executive Board, at its meeting in March 1954, took the following decision concerning conditions governing approval of projects jointly assisted by WHO and UNICEF : " The Executive Director was directed by the Executive Board to withhold action until the next Board session on any jointly assisted projects which might be deleted from the proposed 1955 WHO budget " ; 4. REQUESTS, in the event that the UNICEF Executive Board decides to begin action on any jointly assisted projects for which WHO is unable to provide the finances required for the technical personnel required, that the UNICEF Executive Board at the same time decide to reimburse WHO for the health personnel required, inaccordance with the agreed principles governing co-operation between UNICEF and WHO, until such time as WHO is able to make financial provision therefor ; 5. REQUESTS the Director-General, when adjusting the 1955 programme, to provide for half the cost of the international health personnel in projects for which UNICEF has been reimbursing these costs in 1954; 6. REQUESTS the Director-General, to the extent possible in the light of available resources, to re-transfer, by concentrating on priority I projects, to Technical Assistance funds those projects which, in 1954, are being financed from regular funds ; further 7. REQUESTS the Director-General to submit to the Executive Board at its fifteenth session a report reflecting the adjustments made to the 1955 programme pursuant to this resolution ; and, finally, 8. RECOMMENDS that as far as practicable for future years the Director-General develop the regular programme and Technical Assistance programme in such away as to keep them completely separate. Handb. Res., 2nd ed., 2.1 Adopted at the tenth plenary meeting, 20 May 1954 (section 4 of the fourth report of the Committee on Programme and Budget)