e The Sixty-seventh World Health Assembly, Having considered the report on the follow-up of the Recife Political Declaration on Human Resources for Health: renewed commitments towards universal health coverage and the outcome document of the Third Global Forum on Human Resources for Health (Recife, Brazil, 1013 November 2013); 2 Recognizing the leadership role of WHO inhuman resources for health, and the mandate given in this regard by resolution WHA63.16 on the WHO Global Code of Practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel , WHA66.23 on transforming health workforce education in support of universal health coverage, WHO s global policy recommendations on increasing access to health worker sin remote and rural areas through improved retention3 (2010 ) and WHO s guideline son transforming and scaling up health professional s education and training (2013 );4 Recalling the commitment to attain universal health coverage and the need for an improved health workforce to achieve it; Reaffirming the importance of the Kampala Declaration and Agenda for Global Action, aswell as the WHO Global Code of Practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel, and recognizing the need to renew these commitments and take them forward in light of new developments with a view to progressing towards universal health coverage, 1. ENDORSES the call to action in the Recife Political Declaration on Human Resources for Health: renewed commitments towards universal health coverage; 2. WELCOMES the commitments made by Member States in the Recife Political Declaration on Human Resources for Health: renewed commitments towards universal health coverage; 1 Document A67 / 34. 2 Document A67 / 34, Annex . 3 Increasing access to health workers in remote and rural areas through improved retention: global policy recommendations. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2010. 4 Transforming and scaling up health professionals education and training: World Health Organization guidelines 2013. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2013. WHA6 7.24 2 3. URGES Member States1 to implement, as appropriate, din accordance with national and subnational responsibilities, the commitments made in the Recife Political Declaration on Human Resources for Health: renewed commitments towards universal health coverage; 4. REQUESTS the Director-General : (1) to take into consideration the Recife Political Declaration on Human Resources for Health: renewed commitments towards universal health coverage in the future work of WHO; (2) to develop and submit anew global strategy for human resource s for health for consideration by the Sixty-ninth World Health Assembly. Ninth plenary meeting, 24 May 2014 A67 / VR / 9 = = = 1 And, where applicable, regional economic integration organizations.