) The Sixty-seventh World Health Assembly, Having considered the report on implementation of the International Health Regulations (2005);1 Recalling the recent meeting and report of the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on immunization which completed its scientific review and analysis of evidence on issues concerning vaccination against yellow fever and concluded that a single dose of yellow fever vaccine is sufficient to confer sustained immunity and life-long protection against yellow fever disease, and that a booster dose of yellow fever vaccine is not needed; Noting that in its report the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on immunization recommended that WHO should revisit the provisions in the International Health Regulations (2005) relating to the period of validity for international certificates for vaccination against yellow fever, 1. ADOPTS, inaccordance with paragraph 3 of Article 55 of the International Health Regulations (2005), the updated Annex 7 of the International Health Regulations (2005) that is setout below . ANNEX 7 REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING VACCINATION OR PROPHYLAXIS FOR SPECIFIC DISEASES 1. In addition to any recommendation concerning vaccination or prophylaxis, the following diseases are those specifically designated under these Regulations for which proof of vaccination or prophylaxis maybe required for travellers as a condition of entry toa State Party: Vaccination against yellow fever. 1 Document A67 / 35. 2 Meeting of the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on immunization, April 2013 conclusions and recommendations. Weekly epidemiological record. 2013;88(20):201 . WHA67. 13 2 2. Recommendations and requirements for vaccination against yellow feve r: (a) For the purpose of this Annex: (i) the incubation period of yellow fever is six days; (ii) yellow fever vaccines approved by WHO provide protection against infection starting 10 days following the administration of the vaccine; (iii) this protection continues for the life of the person vaccinated ; and (iv) the validity of a certificate of vaccination against yellow fever shall extend for the life of the person vaccinated , beginning 10 days after the date of vaccination. (b) Vaccination against yellow fever maybe required of any traveller leaving an area where the Organization has determined that a risk of yellow fever transmission is present. (c) If a traveller is in possession of a certificate of vaccination against yellow fever which is not yet valid, the traveller maybe permitted to depart, but the provisions of paragraph 2(h) of this Annex maybe applied on arrival. (d) A traveller in possession of a valid certificate of vaccination against yellow fever shall not be treated as susp ect, even if coming from an area where the Organization has determined that a risk of yellow fever transmission is present. (e) Inaccordance with paragraph 1 of Annex 6 the yellow fever vaccine used must be approved by the Organization. (f) States Parties shall designate specific yellow fever vaccination centres within their territories in order to ensure the quality and safety of the procedures and materials employed. (g) Every person employed at a point of entry in an area where the Organization has determined that a risk of yellow fever transmission is present, and every member of the crew of a conveyance using any such point of entry, shall be in possession of a valid certificate of vaccination against yellow fever. (h) A State Party, in whose territory vectors of yellow fever are present, may require a traveller from an area where the Organization has determined that a risk of yellow fever transmission is present, who is unable to produce a valid certificate of vaccination against yellow fever, tobe quarantined until the certificate becomes valid, or until a period of not more than six days, reckoned from the date of last possible exposure to infection, has elapsed, whichever occurs first. (i) Travellers who possess an exemption from yellow fever vaccin ation, signed by an authorized medical officer or an authorized health worker, may nevertheless be allowed entry, subject to the provisions of the foregoing paragraph of this Annex and to being provided with information regarding protection from yellow fever vectors. Should the travellers not be quarantined, they maybe required to report any feverish or other symptoms to the competent authority and be placed under surveillance. Ninth plenary meeting, 24 May 2014 A67 / VR / 9 = = =