The Twenty-first World Health Assembly, Having considered the report of the Director-General on the smallpox eradication programme, submitted inaccordance with paragraph 4 of resolution WHA20.15 ; Noting that, while progress in the eradication effort is now being made, smallpox continues to represent a serious health problem to both endemic and non-endemic countries; and Recognizing the need for full and active participation by all endemic countries if eradication is tobe achieved, and for the maximum of co-ordination in their efforts, 1. REITERATES that the worldwide eradication of smallpox is one of the major objectives of the Organization ; 2. URGES again that: {a) countries having smallpox, and no eradication programmes, give the highest possible priority to the provision of funds and personnel to achieve eradication; and (.b) those countries where eradication programmes are progressing slowly intensify their eradication efforts ; 3. REQUESTS that those countries where smallpox has been eradicated should continue their vaccination programmes so as to maintain a sufficient level of immunity in their populations; 4. REQUESTS all Member States to give the programme greater support in the form of contributions, such as vaccine and transport, so that the programme maybe executed as rapidly as possible; 5. REQUESTS countries providing bilateral aid in the health field to include in their activities assistance in the context of the global smallpox eradication programme; 6. REQUESTS all governments to place particular emphasis on: (a) complete reporting of smallpox cases; and (.b) the institution of active containment measures for each outbreak; 7. REQUESTS all governments producing freeze-dried smallpox vaccine to take special care in its preparation so as to ensure that vaccine meets the WHO potency and purity requirements; and 8. REQUESTS the Director-General: (a) to continue to take all necessary steps to assure the maximum co-ordination of national efforts and provision of contributions from international and bilateral agencies with the objective of achieving smallpox eradication as quickly as possible; 0b) to report further to the Executive Board and the World Health Assembly. Handb. Res., 9th ed., 1.3.6 Sixteenth plenary meeting, 22 May 1968 (Committee on Programme and Budget, third report)