WHA14.56  Radiation  Health,  including  Protection  of Mankind  from  Ionizing  Radiation  Hazards,  whatever their  Source 
The Fourteenth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Recalling  that  the  Thirteenth  World  Health  Assembly  gave  detailed  consideration  to the subject  of 
" radiation  health,  including  protection  of mankind  from  ionizing  radiation  hazards,  whatever  their 
source  "; 
Noting  that  in resolution  WHA13.56,  the  Thirteenth  World  Health  Assembly  outlined  the  areas  of 
WHO  responsibility  and  laid  out  a constructive  programme  in this  field; 
Noting  that  present  scientific  knowledge  provides  data  on the harmful  biologic  and  genetic  effects  to 
human  beings  of massive  doses  of ionizing  radiation; 
Noting  that  the effects  of low-level  radiation  over  a long  period  associated  with  background  radiation, 
fall-out,  and  radiation  resulting  from  medical  and  dental  uses  are under  world-wide  study; 
Recognizing  that  the countries  concerned  are reopening  discussions  in Geneva  on 21 March  1961,  with 
a view  to the cessation  of nuclear  testing  under  effective  international  control;  and 
Expressing  the  hope  that  these  discussions  will  be successful, 
1. NOTES  the  report  of the  Director-General  on  the  progress  being  made  by  Member  countries 
in developing  and  staffing  radiation  control  programmes  with  particular  reference  to the responsibilities 
of national  health  authorities  and  of WHO  in this  field; 
2. REQUESTS  the  Director-General  to continue  to carry  out  the  programme  as set  forth  in resolution  WHA13.56,  in co-operation,  as appropriate,  with  IAEA  and  other  agencies  concerned; 
3. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to co-operate  with  other  agencies  concerned  in collecting  and  disseminating  scientific  and  technical  information  on the health  aspects  of radiation  to the health  authorities  and, 
through  them,  to the  people  of the Member  States; 
4. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to continue  to sponsor  or stimulate  studies  of the genetic  and  biological 
effects  of low-level  radiation  from  all sources,  in co-operation  with  other  agencies  concerned; 
5. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to participate,  in consultation  with  IAEA  and  other  competent  and 
interested  international  agencies,  in sponsoring  and  stimulating  research  and  studies  aimed  at the establishment  of acceptable  standards  and  regulations  to prevent  pollution  of the sea and  other  international  waterways  by radioactive  materials  in amounts  which  adversely  affect  man; 
6. REQUESTS  urgently  all the Members  of the World  Health  Organization  to prohibit  all discharge  of 
radioactive  waste  into  watercourses  or the sea,  to the extent  that  the safety  of such  discharge  has  not been 
proved,  and  to promote  research  as referred  to in paragraph  5 above  ; 
7. URGES  the health  authorities  of Member  States  to take  appropriate  steps  to train  personnel  in this  field 
and to accelerate  their  activities  in public  health  aspects  of radiation  from  all sources; 
8. RECOGNIZES  the  anxiety  of Member  States  of the World  Health  Organization  concerning  increased 
exposure  to controlled  and  uncontrolled  sources  of ionizing  radiation; 
9. NOTES  with  approval  the action  of the fourteenth  and  fifteenth  sessions  of the United  Nations  General 
Assembly  relating  to the immediate  cessation  of nuclear  testing; 
10. REQUESTS  the governments  concerned  in the discussions  on nuclear  testing  to give  due  regard  to the 
health  implications  of the matter;  and 
11. URGES  the health  authorities  of Member  countries  to assure  that  representatives  of their  governments 
at the forthcoming  discussions  in Geneva  and  in the United  Nations  and  related  bodies  concerned  with 
radiation  are  at all times  kept  fully  up to date  in regard  to deleterious  health  effects. 
Handb.  Res.,  5th  ed.,  1.3.1 Thirteenth  plenary  meeting,  24  February  1961  (sixth 
report,  as amended,  of the Committee  on  Programme 
and Budget) 
