WHA18.22Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the World Health AssemblyThe Eighteenth World Health Assembly,Having considered the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the World Health Assembly asproposed by the Executive Board at its thirty -fifth session,ADOPTSthe amendments to the Rules of Procedure 1as well as the Guiding Principles for the conductof elections by secret ballot set forth below.2Rule 61A delegate or a representative of an Associate Member may at any time move the closure of the debateon the item under discussion whether or not any other delegate or representative of an Associate Memberhas signified his wish to speak. If request is made for permission to speak against closure, it may beaccorded to not more than two speakers, after which the motion shall be immediately put to the vote. Ifthe Health Assembly decides in favour of closure, the President shall declare the debate closed. The HealthAssembly shall thereafter vote only on the one or more proposals moved before the closure.
Rule 69Each Member shall have one vote in the Health Assembly. For the purposes of these Rules, the phrase" Members present and voting " means Members casting a valid affirmative or negative vote. Membersabstaining from voting are considered as not voting.
Rule 72The Health Assembly shall normally vote by show of hands, except that any delegate may request aroll -call, which shall then be taken in the English or French alphabetical order of the names of the Members,in alternate years.The name of the Member to vote first shall be determined by lot.
Rule 75 (bis)When the Health Assembly votes by secret ballot, the ballot itself and the check of the number of ballotpapers shall take place in plenary meeting. Unless the Health Assembly determines otherwise the counting ofvotes shall take place in a separate room to which delegations shall have access. This counting shall takeplace under the supervision of the President or of one ofthe Vice- Presidents of the Health Assembly. TheHealth Assembly may proceed with its work during the period before the results of the ballot can be announced.
Rule 78 (bis)In an election each Member, unless he abstains, shall vote for that number of candidates equal to thenumber of elective places to be filled. Any ballot paper on which there are more or fewer names than thereare elective places to be filled shall be null and void.Rule 79If during an election one or more elective places cannot be filled by reason of an equal number of voteshaving been obtained by two or more candidates, a ballot shall be held among such candidates to determinewhich of them will be elected. This procedure may be repeated if necessary. If the votes are equally dividedon a matter other than an election, the proposal shall be regarded as not adopted.
Rule 80Subject to any decision of the Health Assembly the procedure governing the conduct of business andvoting by committees shall conform as far as practicable to the Rules relative to the conduct of businessand voting in plenary meetings. One third of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum. Thepresence of a majority of a committee shall, however, be required for a question to be put to a vote.Rule 100Delete this Rule.Rule 101Delete this Rule.
GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR THE CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS BY SECRET BALLOT
1.Before voting begins, the President shall hand to the two tellers appointed by him the list of Membersentitled to vote and the list of candidates. For the elections of Members entitled to designate persons toserve on the Executive Board or of the Director -General, the list of candidates shall include only thosenominations submitted to the World Health Assembly in accordance with the procedure laid down inRules 98 and 108 respectively of the Rules of Procedure of the World Health Assembly.2.The Secretariat shall distribute a ballot paper to each delegation. Every ballot paper shall be of thesame size and colour without distinguishing marks.3.The tellers shall satisfy themselves that the ballot box is empty and, having locked it, shall hand the keyto the President.4.Members shall be called in turn to vote in the required alphabetical order of their names,' beginningwith the name of a Member which shall have been drawn by lot. The call shall be made in English, French,Russian and Spanish.5.The secretary of the meeting and the tellers shall record each Member's vote by marking the marginof the list of Members entitled to vote opposite to the name of the Member in question.6.At the conclusion of the calling of Members, the President shall ensure that all the Members presentand entitled to vote have been called. He shall then declare the voting closed and announce that the votesare to be counted.7.When the ballot box has been opened, the tellers shall count the number of ballot papers. If the numberis not equal to that of the voters, the President shall declare the vote invalid and another ballot shall be held8.Where the counting of votes takes place outside the Assembly Hall, the ballot papers shall be returnedto the ballot box which shall be taken by the tellers to the room where the votes are to be counted.9.One of the tellers shall then read aloud the names which are on the ballot paper. The number of votesobtained by each of the candidates mentioned shall be written opposite their names by the other teller on adocument drawn up for this purpose.10. A ballot paper on which no names are written or which bears the word " abstention " shall beconsidered as signifying an abstention.11.The following shall be considered null and void :(a)ballot papers on which there are more or fewer names than there are elective places to be filledor on which the name of any candidate appears more than once;(b)ballot papers in which the voters have revealed their identity, in particular by apposing theirsignature or mentioning the name of the Member they represent;(c)where the Rules of Procedure so require, ballot papers bearing the names of candidates otherthan those nominated in accordance with the provisions of those Rules.12.When the counting of the votes is completed, the tellers shall indicate the results in a document drawnup for this purpose, which they shall sign and hand to the President. The latter, in plenary meeting, shallannounce the results in the following order : number of Members entitled to vote; number absent; numberof abstentions; number of ballot papers null and void; number of Members present and voting; numberrequired for a majority; names of candidates and the number of votes secured by each of them, in descendingorder of the number of votes.13.For the purposes of these provisions, the following definitions shall apply :(a)"Absent " - Members entitled to vote but whose representatives are not present at the meetingat which the secret ballot takes place;(b)"Number of Members present and voting " - the difference between the number of Memberswith the right to vote and the total number of absentees, abstentions and invalid ballot papers.14.The President shall declare elected candidates who have obtained the required majority.15.The list signed by the tellers and on which the results of the vote have been recorded shall constitutethe official record of the count of the ballot and shall be retained in the Organization's files. The ballotpapers shall be destroyed immediately after the declaration of the results of the ballot.
Handb. Res., 7th ed., 4.1.4 Tenth plenary meeting, 17 May 1965 (Committee onAdministration,Finance and Legal Matters, thirdreport)