WHA28.18  Members  in arrears  in the payment  of their  contributions  to an extent  which  may  invoke  Article  7 
of the Constitution 
The Twenty-eighth  World  Health  Assembly, 
Having  considered  the report  of the Ad Hoc  Committee  of the Executive  Board  1 on Members  in arrears 
in the  payment  of their  contributions  to an extent  which  may  invoke  the  provisions  of Article  7 of the 
Constitution; 
Having  noted  that  Bolivia,  the Dominican  Republic,  El Salvador,  Haiti  and  Paraguay  are in arrears  to 
such  an extent  that  it is necessary  for the Assembly  to consider,  in accordance  with  Article  7 of the Constitution, 
whether  or not the voting  privileges  of these  Members  should  be suspended  ； 
Noting  that  Bolivia,  El Salvador,  Haiti  and  Paraguay  have  made  payments  in 1975; 
Noting  further  the proposals  made  by Paraguay  for the settlement  of its outstanding  contributions;2 
Recognizing  the efforts  made  by those  four  countries  to liquidate  their  arrears  ； and 
Noting  that  the Dominican  Republic  has made  no payment  to the Organization  in respect  of its assessed 
contributions  since  1966，in  spite  of the acceptance  by the Twenty-fifth  World  Health  Assembly  of its proposal 
for settlement  of its arrears,  and  that,  as a result,  the Dominican  Republic  is in arrears  for the balance  of its 
1965  contribution  and  for the full  contributions  for the years  1966  to 1974， 
1. DECIDES  not to suspend  the voting  privileges  of Bolivia,  El Salvador,  Haiti  and  Paraguay  at the Twentyeighth  World  Health  Assembly; 
2. ACCEPTS  the settlement  of its arrears  proposed  by Paraguay,  to the effect  that  the consolidated  outstanding 
contributions  for the years  1972-1975  be paid  in 10 equal  instalments  of US $13  650 in the years  1976-1985; 
3. DECIDES  that  if the arrangements  specified  in operative  paragraph  2 above  are fulfilled  by Paraguay  it 
will be unnecessary  for future  Assemblies  to invoke  the provisions  of paragraph  2 of resolution  WHA8.13 
and that,  notwithstanding  the provisions  of Financial  Regulation  5.6,  payments  of contributions  of Paraguay 
for the year  1976  and  future  years  shall  be credited  to the year  concerned  ； 
4. URGES  Bolivia,  El Salvador,  Haiti  and  Paraguay  to intensify  the efforts  now  being  made  in order  to 
achieve  at the earliest  possible  date  the regularization  of their  position; 
5. DECIDES  to suspend  the voting  privileges  of the Dominican  Republic  at the Twenty-eighth  World  Health 
Assembly; 
6. URGES  the Dominican  Republic  to regularize  its position  at an early  date  and  to implement  the arrangements  for settlement  of its arrears  accepted  by the Twenty-fifth  World  Health  Assembly,  thus  enabling  the 
Dominican  Republic  to resume  its full participation  in the work  of the World  Health  Assembly;  and 
7. REQUESTS  the Director-General  to communicate  this  resolution  to the Members  concerned. 
Handb.  Res.,  Vol.  II，7.1.2.4 Eleventh  plenary  meeting,  22 May  1975 
(Committee  B，second  report) 
