FIFTY-FIRST WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY WHA51.5
Agenda item 12.2 13 May 1998
Contract of the Director-General
The Fifty-first World Health Assembly,
I
Pursuant to Article 31 of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the Health Assembly,APPROVES the contract establishing the terms and conditions of appointment, salary and other
emoluments for the post of Director-General, with the addition of the following amendment to section II. (1):
“The Director-General shall not participate in the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund and shall instead
receive as a monthly supplement the contribution that the Organization would have paid each month to thePension Fund had the Director-General been a participant.”
II
Pursuant to Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the Health Assembly,AUTHORIZES the President of the Fifty-first World Health Assembly to sign this contract in the name of
the Organization.
Sixth plenary meeting, 13 May 1998
A51/VR/6WHA51.5
2CONTRACT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
THIS CONTRACT is made this thirteenth day of May one thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight between
the World Health Organization (hereinafter called the Organization) of the one part andDr Gro Harlem Grundtland (hereinafter called the Director-General) of the other part.
WHEREAS(1) It is provided by Article 31 of the Constitution of the Organization that the Director-General of the
Organization shall be appointed by the World Health Assembly (hereinafter called the Health Assembly) on thenomination of the Executive Board (hereinafter called the Board) on such terms as the Health Assembly maydecide;  and
(2) The Director-General has been duly nominated by the Board and appointed by the Health Assembly
at its meeting held on the thirteenth day of May one thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight for a period offive years.
NOW THIS CONTRACT WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed as follows,
I. (1) The Director-General shall serve from the twenty-first day of July one thousand nine hundred and
ninety-eight until the twentieth day of July two thousand and three on which date the appointment and thisContract shall terminate.
(2) Subject to the authority of the Board, the Director-General shall exercise the functions of chief
technical and administrative officer of the Organization and shall perform such duties as may be specified in theConstitution and in the rules of the Organization and/or as may be assigned to him or her by the Health Assemblyor the Board.
(3) The Director-General shall be subject to the Staff Regulations of the Organization in so far as they
may be applicable to him or her.  In particular he or she shall not hold any other administrative post, and shallnot receive emoluments from any outside sources in respect of activities relating to the Organization.  He or sheshall not engage in business or in any employment or activity which would interfere with his or her duties in theOrganization.
(4) The Director-General, during the term of this appointment, shall enjoy all the privileges and
immunities in keeping with the office by virtue of the Constitution of the Organization and any relevantarrangements already in force or to be concluded in the future.
(5) The Director-General may at any time give six months’ notice of resignation in writing to the Board,
which is authorized to accept such resignation on behalf of the Health Assembly;  in which case, upon theexpiration of the said period of notice, the Director-General shall cease to hold the appointment and this Contractshall terminate.
(6) The Health Assembly shall have the right, on the proposal of the Board and after hearing the
Director-General and subject to at least six months’ notice in writing, to terminate this Contract for reasons ofexceptional gravity likely to prejudice the interests of the Organization.
II. (1) As from the twenty-first day of July one thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight the Director-General
shall receive from the Organization an annual salary of one hundred and seventy-five thousand three hundred andforty-four United States dollars, before staff assessment, resulting in a net salary (to be paid monthly) ofone hundred and nineteen t housand seven hundred and twenty-two United States dollars per annum at theWHA51.5
3dependency rate (one hundred and six thousand two hundred and fifty-five United States dollars at the single rate)
or its equivalent in such other currency as may be mutually agreed between the parties to this Contract.
(2) In addition to the normal adjustments and allowances authorized to staff members under the Staff
Rules, the Director-General shall receive an annual representation allowance of twenty thousand United Statesdollars or its equivalent in such other currency as may be mutually agreed between the parties to this Contract,to be paid monthly commencing on the twenty-first day of July one thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight.  Therepresentation allowance shall be used at his or her discretion entirely in respect of representation in connectionwith his or her official duties.  He or she shall be entitled to such reimbursable allowances as travel allowancesand removal costs on appointment, on subsequent change of official station, on termination of appointment, oron official travel and home leave travel.
III. The terms of the present Contract relating to rates of salary and representation allowance are subject to
review and adjustment by the Health Assembly on the proposal of the Board, and after consultation with theDirector-General, to bring them into conformity with any provision regarding the conditions of employment ofstaff members which the Health Assembly may decide to apply to staff members already in the service.
IV. If any question of interpretation or any dispute arises concerning this Contract, which is not settled by
negotiation or agreement, the matter shall be referred for final decision to the competent tribunal provided for inthe Staff Rules.
WHEREUNTO we have set our hands the day and year first above written.       (signed) (signed)                        
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Director-General President of the
World Health Assembly
(Sixth plenary meeting, 13 May 1998)
=     =     =