The Twenty-sixth World Health Assembly, Having examined the desirability of introducing a biennial programme and budget setout in resolution WHA25.24 and in the report of the Director-General to the Twenty-fifth World Health Assembly on this subject;1 Considering the recommendation made to the Twenty-sixth World Health Assembly by the Executive Board at its fifty-first session in resolution EB51.R51 that a programme and budget fora biennial period be introduced as soon as possible and to adopt the proposed amendments to Articles 34 and 55 of the Constitution; and Noting that the provision of Article 73 of the Constitution, which requires that the texts of proposed amendments to the Constitution shall be communicated to Members at least six months before consideration by the Health Assembly, has been duly complied with, 1. ADOPTS the amendments to the Constitution set forth in the Annexes to this resolution, and which shall form an integral part of this resolution, the texts in the Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish languages being equally authentic 2. DECIDES that two copies of this resolution shall be authenticated by the signatures of the President of the Twenty-sixth World Health Assembly, and the Director-General of the World Health Organization, of which one copy shall be transmitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, depositary of the Constitution, and one copy retained in the archives of the World Health Organization; II Considering that the aforesaid amendments to the Constitution shall come into force for all Members when accepted by two-thirds of the Members inaccordance with their respective constitutional processes, as provided for in Article 73 of the Constitution, DECIDES that the notification of such acceptance shall be effected by the deposit of A formal instrument with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, as required for acceptance of the Constitution by Article 79() of the Constitution. Handb. Res., Vol. I, 6.1 ; 2.1 Fifteenth plenary meeting, 22 May 1973 (Committee B, third report) ANNEXA CHINESE TEXT ," IL I. \k .f ANNEX ENGLISH TEXT In Article 34 delete the word "annually", In Article 55 delete the word annual' the amended Articles reading as follows : Article 34 The Director-General shall prepare and submit to the Board the financial statements and budget estimates of the Organization. Article 55 The Director-General shall prepare and submit to the Board the budget estimates of the Organization. The Board shall consider and submit to the Health Assembly such budget estimates, together with any recommendations the Board may deem advisable. ANNEX FRENCH TEXT A Varticle 34, supprimer les mots chaque anne . A tide 55, supprimer le mot annuelles . Les articles ainsi modifis se liront comme suit: Article 34 Le Directeur gnral doit prparer et soumettre au Conseil les rapports financiers et les prvisions budgtaires de l'Organisation. Article 55 Le Directeur gnral prpare et soumet au Conseil les prvisions budgtaires de l'Organisation. Le Conseil examine ces prvisions budgtaires et les soumet l'Assemble de la Sant, en les accompagnant de telles recommandations qu'il croit opportunes. ANNEX D RUSSIAN TEXT 34 . 55 . : 34 . 55 . , . ANNEX SPANISH TEXT Artculo 34: Suprmase la palabra anualmente . Artculo 55: Suprmase la palabra anual . La nueva redaccin de estos artculos ser, por tanto, la siguiente: Artculo 34 El Director General preparar y presentar al Consejo los balances y proyectos de presupuestos de la Organizacin. Artculo 55 El Director General preparar y someter al Consejo el proyecto de presupuesto de la Organizacin. El Consejo considerar y someter ala Asamblea de la Salud dicho proyecto de presupuesto con las recomendaciones que estime convenientes.